Anthropic is donating another $20 million to Public First Action
We're contributing an additional $20 million to Public First Action, bringing our total support to $40 million. Public First Action is a nonpartisan organization that educates the public about AI and works with Republicans, Democrats, and Independents who are serious about putting sensible AI safeguards in place. Both of our donations were made exclusively to support Public First Action’s public education and policy mission, and cannot be used to influence the election of any candidate for federal, state, or local office.
Our first donation in February 2026 was made to help promote policies that will maintain meaningful safeguards, sustain America’s AI leadership, and demand transparency from the companies building the most powerful AI models. In the months since, the case for these policies has only gotten stronger.
Why now?
AI models continue to improve at a rapid pace. Earlier this year, Claude Mythos Preview discovered thousands of high-severity software vulnerabilities, including some in every major operating system and browser. We chose to release it to a limited set of cyber defenders through Project Glasswing to enable trusted actors to find and fix those weaknesses before anyone could exploit them. In the wrong hands, models like this could threaten the critical systems the country relies on, from hospitals to the energy grid.
More capable models will bring benefits—like compressing drug discovery, developing treatments for diseases we’ve never been able to treat, accelerating science to deliver a century of progress in a decade, extending human lifespans, and driving the kind of economic growth that lets everyone share in the prosperity—but we need to make sure we are protected against the risks first in order to realize those benefits.
Governments need time to build the capacity to capture benefits while containing risks, which is why they need to start now.
Policy that meets the moment
We’ve long argued that frontier AI companies should be transparent about what their models can do and how they’re managing the risks. We’ve supported newly passed laws in several states that require greater transparency for AI developers. But given how fast the capabilities of the most powerful models are advancing, transparency alone is insufficient.
We need policymakers and candidates to put forward measures that mitigate risks. This is the core of what we’ve laid out in Anthropic's Advanced AI Framework, which is the strongest policy proposal from any frontier lab or policymaker to date. Governments should be able to verify companies’ safety claims, enforce safe practices through civil penalties, and ultimately have a way to slow or block the deployment of AI models that pose a serious risk of catastrophic harm. Frontier AI developers should have to test models that pose catastrophic risk, be transparent to the public about their findings, submit them to independent evaluation, and maintain a robust security program.
As the pace of AI advances accelerates, the national security stakes of AI are growing, as we outlined in 2028: Two Scenarios for Global AI Leadership. America and our democratic allies have the advantage today, but that lead is tenuous. To ensure continued American AI leadership, we support policy efforts to tighten export controls on advanced chips and semiconductor manufacturing equipment and to curb illicit model access and distillation attacks, so that democracies’ best technologies are not used to advance authoritarian AI.
What comes next?
These policy frameworks are just a starting point. Our donation to Public First Action is one way in which we’re trying to raise the salience of this urgent policy debate.
Related content
A research agenda for the Economic Futures Research Fund
We’re sharing the research agenda for the Anthropic Economic Futures Research Fund.
Read moreAsk Claude about the Anthropic Economic Index
We're launching the Anthropic Economic Index connector for Claude, which lets anyone explore real data about AI and work.
Read moreApply for Anthropic’s AI for Science rare disease research grants
Anthropic is sharing a focused call for AI for Science applications centered specifically on rare genetic diseases. Accepted applicants will receive up to $50,000 in Claude credits over six months, with the goal of building a community of researchers looking into how AI can reshape our understanding of rare disease.
Read more