Empowering India’s next generation of innovators with ATL Saathi
Atal Tinkering Labs (ATL) is bringing access to new technology—such as 3D printing, IoT, and robotics—for over 1.1 crore students across India. The initiative is now leveraging AI to scale high-quality mentorship, shifting the focus from access to providing physical lab infrastructure to driving meaningful outcomes like accelerated innovation and enhanced learning metrics.
At the AI Impact Summit in February 2026, Google DeepMind announced that it will help incorporate robotics and coding into local curricula, integrate Gemini thoughtfully into teacher workflows, and build a safely guardrailed AI assistant for students grounded in national curriculum standards that can act as an educational partner. I am happy to share that today we are launching a live pilot of ATL Saathi, a Gemini-powered web application that provides every Tinkering Lab educator with a 24/7 planning and training assistant, transforming ATLs into AI-Augmented Discovery Labs.
A new contribution to Indian Education with Atal Innovation Mission
We believe behind every good student is a great teacher. That’s why for over 20 years, Google has been dedicated to supporting the education ecosystem by introducing technology into teaching and learning through a teacher-led approach. With foundational platforms like Google for Education and Google Classroom, we build products tailored to the needs of schools, keeping the teacher in the lead. To further support the empowerment of educators, our new Google Educator AI Series ensures teachers are equipped with both the tools and the digital skills required for today's classrooms. We see Gemini as a great tool to enable our partners to create unique, augmented learning experiences.
We have been working closely with the Atal Innovation Mission , which is part of NITI Aayog, the Government of India’s flagship initiative to promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the country, to ensure that the tool is grounded in teacher’s needs, accurately reflects ATL’s educational principles and pedagogy to "Cultivate one Million children in India as Neoteric Innovators", and creates genuine value for the ATL educators.
Here are some of the key features in the ATL Saathi:
1. Streamlined onboarding and content curation
All ATL training modules and curriculum materials are organised and maintained within NotebookLM, ensuring educators always have access to the most up-to-date content. The application provides summarized modules, AI-generated infographics, video overviews, and interactive quizzes for 12 core modules from the ATL prescribed curriculum. This micro-learning approach replaces lengthy videos, allowing teachers to quickly familiarize themselves with complex topics.
2. Advanced project generation (Push & Pull mentorship)
For 10 core modules, teachers now have access to an advanced project generation interface. This feature elegantly supports both "push" and "pull" teaching mechanisms:
- Generate project ideas (Push): Teachers can instantly create distinct, grade-appropriate project suggestions aligned with the curriculum to inspire student curiosity.
- Detailed experiments (Pull): When students bring their own problem statements, the AI provides educators with step-by-step assembly instructions, wiring diagrams, and necessary safety precautions to bring those ideas to life safely.
3. Multilingual accessibility
Understanding the linguistic diversity of India's classrooms, educators can interact with the assistant in their preferred language. The assistant responds and generates materials in that same language, starting with 8 languages and the flexibility to support more.
Leveraging Gemini as the underlying intelligence
Powering the ATL Saathi, the Gemini model provides the underlying intelligence to transform tinkering labs into AI-augmented discovery environments. Its ability to create concise instructional materials, including AI infographics, video overviews, and interactive quizzes for core curriculum modules, helps teachers easily navigate complex training materials and seamlessly adopt micro-learning content.
Our latest Gemini 3.5 Flash model instantly generates grade-appropriate, curriculum-aligned project ideas to spark student curiosity and provides educators with step-by-step assembly instructions, wiring diagrams, and safety precautions for unique problem statements brought forward by students.
Looking ahead to the future
We are rolling out ATL Saathi to an initial cohort of 100 pilot schools across the country. By adopting AI-assisted tools and micro-learning formats, we hope for teachers to report significant reductions in their administrative load, higher efficiency, and an increased readiness and comfort level to help students tinker and innovate.
By shifting the burden of administrative overhead and curriculum translation onto AI, we are freeing our educators to do what they do best: mentor, inspire, and guide. Together, let's tinker and build the future.