Many people reached out to me in the past asking about my local agent stack as well as how I set up my local agent stack. So, I thought it might be useful to put together a little tutorial on how to set up a local (coding) agent using open-source tools and open-weight LLMs. Figure 1: Overview of the local stack, that is, a coding agent harness that uses a local model hosted through an inference engine / runtime server. This article is a tutorial on setting up a production-ready coding agent with a fully local stack. We will use a locally served LLM together with a local coding harness that can read files, make edits, run commands, and verify changes as shown in the figure above. Here, we can think of the LLM as the engine that provides the reasoning and code generation. And the surrounding harness provides the operating environment that allows the LLM to do meaningful coding work in our local projects. Why local? For many coding workflows, a local setup is an interesting alternative to proprietary services such as GPT in Codex or Opus in Claude Code. The local setup is transparent, inspectable, and free to run apart from hardware and electricity costs. It also stays fully under your control, and you can modify the coding harness in any way you like. Plus, it&#8217;s a lot of fun! By the way, in case you want a bit more background information on coding agent harnesses, I covered the core components of coding agents (and building a coding agent from scratch for learning purposes) here: 1. Intro I have to admit that I still primarily alternate between Codex and Claude Code as my daily drivers, for now (and just to keep up with the new tooling and functions that are constantly being added). Also, the plan limits (especially for Codex) are still so generous that I haven&#8217;t had to worry about costs so far. However, I&#8217;ve been using local solutions for a while, too, to test things and because it somehow gives me joy to have and use a fully local setup (versus proprietary services). Either way, local solutions become more and more attractive each day. One aspect is the costs. If you have the hardware, they are practically free to run. And then there&#8217;s, of course, the privacy angle. For example, for organizing and processing my receipts, I&#8217;d be more comfortable with a local model ingesting them rather than sending the data over to OpenAI or Anthropic. (Then, if we keep in mind that Anthropic was recently throttling their flagship model&#8217;s performance for LLM research , proprietary services may become more restrictive over time, and it&#8217;s maybe a good idea to be comfortable with open-weight alternatives as a backup.) And there are many, many additional reasons and use cases like that. Your motivations for using local LLMs and coding harnesses may include: Predictable, fixed costs if you reach your subscription plan limits, and immunity to API price changes. Reproducibility; sometimes it&#8217;s nice if a model is upgraded (e.g., GPT 5.4 -&gt; GPT 5.5 -&gt; GPT 5.6) and it solves all your queries more reliably. However, this can also break existing workflows. Offline use in the classic airplane flight scenario with slow or no internet, or when going on a coding/writing retreat in the cabin in the woods w/o a Starlink subscription. And there are probably several others. So, in this article, we will set up and use popular harnesses like Codex and Claude Code with open-weight models and investigate whether using a model-specific harness (like Qwen-Code for Qwen3.6) brings any additional benefits. (Of course, there are many more harnesses like OpenCode, Cline, Pi, and Noumena Code, but I thought that most people already have muscle memory with either Codex or Claude Code, which makes switching to open-weight models a bit smoother). 2. Coding Agent Harness Overview Most coding agent harnesses follow similar principles and have more or less the same features and functionality. However, the implementation details may differ, and certain LLMs have usually been primarily optimized for a specific harness. Of course, many open-weight LLMs like GLM 5.2, for example, would run Claude Code, etc. However, if an LLM developer also develops a coding harness, it is somewhat safe to assume that their model is optimized for their own harness first (while also supporting others). Here, I am primarily going to use Qwen3.6 with the Qwen-Coder coding client. However, I will also go over other options for using a local LLM with other agent harnesses, for example, Claude Code, Codex, and the increasingly popular Cline, but more on that later. The reason why I am primarily using Qwen-Code when working with Qwen models is that: it is open-source, like Codex ( https://github.com/openai/codex ) but unlike Claude Code; Qwen models have been specifically optimized for the Qwen-Code harness (more information below); I can run both Codex (with the latest GPT model) and Qwen-Code with a local Qwen model side by side on the same machine without having to switch manually back and forth between models. Regarding the second point in the list above, that Qwen models work better in Qwen-Code, Nvidia&#8217;s Polar: Agentic RL on Any Harness at Scale paper (May 2026) has a benchmark showing that the Qwen3.5-4B base model has the best coding performance in said Qwen-Code harness (both before and after their Polar-RL training), which I included below. Figure 2: Qwen model performance in different coding harnesses via Polar: Agentic RL on Any Harness at Scale ( https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.24220 ) The benchmark in the table above is for an older Qwen3.5 model, and I am assuming that the latest Qwen3.6 models are even further optimized to do well in Qwen-Code specifically. However, Pi ( https://github.com/earendil-works/pi ) also seems to be a very interesting candidate that I need to play around with in the future. By the way, Qwen3.6 35B-A3B is about 22 GB to download, requires roughly 30-40 GB of RAM, and runs pretty swiftly on both a Mac Mini with M4 and a DGX Spark. Based on the recent benchmarks shared by Cohere earlier in June, it is currently the best local model in its size class. Figure 3: Cohere benchmark from North Mini Code report published in June ( https://huggingface.co/blog/CohereLabs/introducing-north-mini-code ) As seen above, Qwen3.6 35B-A3B dominates all but one benchmark in this size class. However, that being said, Qwen Code is a general harness and also supports other types of models. For instance, we could also connect North Mini Code or Gemma 4 in Qwen Code. Figure 4: Yes, Qwen3.6 35B-A3B is a really good model! (Via x.com/pupposandro/status/2064707907489272147/) Architecture-wise, the Qwen3.6 35B-A3B model has hybrid attention similar to Qwen3-Coder and Qwen3.5. I wrote more about it in Beyond Standard LLMs . Figure 5: Qwen3.6 architecture and fact sheet from my LLM gallery . Alternatively, if you don&#8217;t want to use Qwen3.6, Cohere&#8217;s North Mini Code is probably the most interesting, capable alternative at this size class right now. I will go over this model in the next local LLM setup section as well. Figure 6: North Mini Code architecture and fact sheet from my LLM gallery . 3. Local LLM Setup No matter what agent harness we use (Qwen-Code, Codex, or Claude Code), we have to set up a local LLM, such as Qwen3.6 35B-A3B, first. There are several options like Ollama, LM Studio, vLLM, SGLang, MLX, etc to serve models locally. You know from my Build A Large Language Model (From Scratch) and Build A Reasoning Model (From Scratch) projects that I like to code these myself. Implementing a model from scratch has the benefits that we understand the whole stack, plus we can modify and further train and fine-tune it. However, here, we just look for a model serving framework that has been super optimized for inference speed and resource needs since we don&#8217;t plan to do any training or fine-tuning at this point. (We could, as an extra step, conve…（正文已截断）