I didn't have early access to today's Claude Fable 5 release, but I've spent the past ~5.5 hours putting it through its paces. My initial impressions are that this is something of a beast . It's slow, expensive and has been quite happily churning through everything I've thrown at it so far. As is frequently the case with current frontier models the challenge is finding tasks that it can't do. First, let's review the key characteristics. Anthropic claim that Claude Fable 5 offers the same performance as Claude Mythos 5, except with much more strict guardrails in place to prevent it being used for harmful things. Those guardrails trigger often enough that the Claude API has new mechanisms for letting you know when you hit them, and even has a new option to request it falls back to another model automatically if something gets rejected. Claude Mythos 5 is out today as well, Anthropic say it "Shares Claude Fable 5's capabilities without the safety classifiers". The models have a 1 million token context window, 128,000 maximum output tokens and a knowledge cut-off date of January 2026. They are priced at twice the price of Claude Opus 4.5/4.6/4.7/4.8: $10/million input tokens and $50/million output tokens. There's no increase in price for longer context usage. Other than that the upgrade guide is substantially thinner than the similar guide for Opus 4.8 . The big model smell The best way to describe Fable is that it feels big . Not just in terms of speed and cost, but also in how much it knows. Here's an example prompt, which I used to compare Fable's knowledge with Opus 4.8 (typo included): List all of Simon Willion's open source projects, most recent first, each with a rough date of when they were first released Opus 4.8's reply started like this : I don't have a reliable, comprehensive, and date-verified list of all of Simon Willison's open source projects, and I want to be honest about that rather than risk giving you inaccurate dates or fabricated entries. Here's what I can tell you with reasonable confidence: Well-known projects by Simon Willison: LLM (~2023) – A command-line tool and Python library for interacting with large language models. Datasette (~2017) – A tool for exploring and publishing data, probably his most prominent recent project. sqlite-utils (~2018-2019) – A Python library and CLI tool for manipulating SQLite databases, often used alongside Datasette. Django (2005) – He is one of the co-creators of the Django web framework, along with Adrian Holovaty, originally developed at the Lawrence Journal-World newspaper. He also maintains a large ecosystem of Datasette plugins and many smaller utilities (often with names like shot-scraper , various *-to-sqlite tools for importing data, etc.). That's not bad. Here's the start of the response for the exact same prompt from Fable 5 - both models were running without access to search: I think you mean Simon Willison — the prolific open source developer, co-creator of Django, and creator of Datasette. An important caveat upfront: a truly complete list isn't feasible. Simon Willison is famously prolific — he has published hundreds of repositories (Datasette alone has 100+ plugins, many written by him), and my knowledge has a cutoff date, so I'll be missing his most recent work. Below are his notable projects with approximate initial release dates, most recent first: Notable projects (approximate dates) files-to-prompt (April 2024) – concatenates files into a single prompt for LLMs datasette-extract (2024) – plugin for extracting structured data using LLMs LLM (May–June 2023) – CLI tool and Python library for interacting with large language models, plus a large ecosystem of plugins (llm-gpt4all, llm-mistral, llm-claude, etc., 2023 onward) symbex (June 2023) – search Python code for symbols ttok and strip-tags (May 2023) – CLI tools for token counting and HTML cleanup for LLM pipelines datasette-lite (May 2022) – Datasette running entirely in the browser via WebAssembly/Pyodide shot-scraper (March 2022) – automated website screenshots via Playwright s3-credentials (November 2021) – CLI for creating scoped AWS S3 credentials django-sql-dashboard (2021) – SQL reporting dashboards for Django Dogsheep suite (2019) – personal analytics tools: twitter-to-sqlite, github-to-sqlite, healthkit-to-sqlite, dogsheep-beta, etc. sqlite-utils (2018) – CLI and Python library for manipulating SQLite databases Datasette (November 2017) – his flagship project; tool for exploring and publishing data csvs-to-sqlite (2017) – convert CSV files to SQLite Various early tools (~2007–2010) – soupselect, json-head, geocoders, and others Django (developed 2003–2005, open-sourced July 2005) – co-created with Adrian Holovaty at the Lawrence Journal-World (Here's GPT-5.5 for good measure . It listed even more projects than Fable did!) In the past I've stated that I don't care about how much models know - I want them to be able to manipulate text and code in useful ways and actively look up the information they need via search tools, not bake it into their weights. But knowledge like this is a reasonably good proxy for model size - you can cram a whole lot more details about the world into a larger number of parameters. Does knowing more stuff mean the model is better at the tasks we pose to it? I can certainly imagine how a coding model with deeper knowledge of modern libraries and patterns could crunch through coding tasks more effectively. Is Fable really bigger than Opus? Anthropic haven't said anything about model size, so all we have are tea-leaves, but the speed, pricing and my own poking at its knowledge make me think that it's a large model. Maybe the largest yet from any vendor. Using Fable in Claude.ai Anthropic made Fable 5 available across all of their surfaces - the Claude.ai chat interface, Claude Code for web, Claude Code CLI and Claude Cowork as well. The model is available "until June 22nd" on the subscription plans (I'm on $100/month Max at the moment), after which it will be billed extra. Claude.ai is often under-estimated. Since September 2025 every chat has had access to a full container environment to run code, including the ability to install additional packages and even clone repositories directly from GitHub. Last week I released micropython-wasm , a Python library that uses wasmtime to run a custom build of MicroPython in WebAssembly to act as a sandbox for untrusted Python code. I decided to see if Fable could upgrade that to running full Python instead. I started with this prompt: Clone simonw/micropython-wasm from GitHub and research how this could use a full Python as opposed to MicroPython Fable identified that it could use Brett Cannon's cpython-wasi-build builds for this, but was unable to download them itself due to environment restrictions. So I grabbed the two zip files from that page and uploaded them to Claude: Here's the Brett Cannon builds ( python-3.zip , _build-python-3.zip as attachments) And that was that. It churned away for a few minutes and got the entire thing working. Part of the response included: I tried the cleaner single-zip-stdlib approach to shrink the filesystem surface, but CPython's getpath bootstrap fails to find encodings from inside a zip without more prefix finessing — the directory-preopen approach works reliably, so that's what the PoC uses. The zip path is solvable but needs _PYTHONHOME /frozen-getpath work. So I said: Try a bit more at the single-zip-stdlib problem Then a little later: I want a wheel that has the whole system in it, the Python wrappers and the WASM files and the stdlibrary, so I can do uv run --with path-to-whl python -c "demo code" ... and it gave me this 13.9MB cpython_wasm-0.1.0-py3-none-any.whl file. You can try running Python code in a sandbox using that wheel URL and uv like this: uv run --with https://static.simonwillison.net/static/cors-allow/2026/cpython_wasm-0.1.0-py3-none-any.whl \ cpython-wasm -c ' print(45 ** 56) ' Here's the full cha…（正文已截断）