August 2026
How should universities prepare students to start startups? Y Combinator is in the perfect position to answer this question, because we get them next. We're like grad school. And because YC has had 20 years to refine its model of what a promising founder looks like, you probably won't find a better target.
What do the YC partners look for? It's surprisingly simple. They want people who are good at building things and have a habit of doing it.
The hard part of startups is product: knowing what to build, and being able to build it. And that kind of knowledge comes from studying computer science or mechanical engineering or molecular biology, not management or finance.
[
1
]
So the way to prepare undergraduates to become successful founders is not to give them some new curriculum focused on "entrepreneurship". It's to do what universities already do best — to teach them computer science and mechanical engineering and molecular biology.
[
2
]
Indeed, preparing students to start startups is closer to the ideal of liberal education than preparing them for almost any other kind of career. Startups succeed or fail based on how much customers like the product. Customers don't care what the founders studied in college. So founders are free to study whatever they want, as long as they get good at building things.
But building should be understood in a very broad sense. It doesn't mean all would-be founders have to study some form of engineering. Almost any kind of expertise that could be described as building or creating could be useful. It was useful to Steve Jobs to have studied calligraphy, for example; it was one of the reasons Apple dominated desktop publishing. So while math and science and engineering and design tend to be good bets, I would not want to draw a sharp line around them, because I can imagine other forms of building that could be useful. And of course you don't have to major in something to be good at it. Mark Zuckerberg was good at programming, but he was a psychology major, not a CS major.
The best way to describe what would-be founders should study is that they should seek out powerful ideas. But smart people are naturally attracted to powerful ideas anyway. So as long as departments teaching powerful ideas exist, the sort of people who'd make good founders will find them.
[
3
]
In fact there are only two things universities need to change to be perfect at preparing founders: they need to make students feel that starting a startup is something they can do, and they need to encourage them to work on their own
projects
.
At the moment, the belief that it's possible to start a startup is very unevenly distributed. YC now gets so many applications that our application data is a reasonable proxy for interest in startups at different universities, and Harvard alumni, for example, apply at about twice the rate of Yale and Princeton alumni. Presumably Harvard students aren't that different from Yale and Princeton students; the reason Harvard students go on to start more startups is just that it's more customary there. Which in turn implies that merely by making their students feel that starting a startup is a viable option, Yale and Princeton could at least double the number who do.
Once a university has a culture of starting startups, you don't have to convince students that it's a viable option. New students learn that from older ones. But at a university that doesn't have much of a startup culture yet, there are things you can do to help this realization along. The most effective is probably to show students examples of people who've done it.
Until you've seen some founders in real life, you tend to think that starting startups is something done by other people. Seeing them pops that bubble. In fact seeing founders in real life is doubly inspiring: they seem impressive, but they also seem human. Especially when they talk about the early years, when they were clueless and made lots of mistakes. So strangely enough seeing founders in real life makes being one seem simultaneously both desirable and accessible. It makes students think "I want to be like that, and I could."
How inspiring founders are to students is a function roughly of how rich and famous they are divided by how much older they are than the students. So it's not essential to bring famous billionaires to campus. Founders in their mid twenties who are 3 years into a startup with a valuation of a couple hundred million will do as well; they may only be a twentieth as rich and famous, but they're twenty times easier for students to identify with.
________________
It's obvious why universities that want their students to start startups need to make them believe it's a viable option. But why is it so important for students to work on their own projects?
There are four reasons. The first is simply that it's a great way, possibly the best way, to understand a subject really deeply. The excitement of creating something new is a much more powerful motivator than the fear of doing badly on an exam.
Second, working on projects together is the best way for cofounders to discover one another. The most successful startups tend to have multiple founders, and the only way to tell for sure if someone will be good to work with is to work with them. Apple and Microsoft were just the last of many projects their founders had worked on together.
Third, a startup is a project, so starting one will feel natural to someone who's used to working on projects of their own. It won't seem weird that there's no teacher or boss telling them what to do. They're used to telling themselves.
Fourth, and perhaps most surprisingly, random side projects are where the best startup ideas come from. The best startup ideas tend to seem so implausible at first that anyone consciously looking for startup ideas would reject them. Who'd expect to start a huge company by creating a student directory? So the way to discover the best startup ideas is not to look for startup ideas but just to work on whatever random projects seem interesting. Because in fact such projects are far from random: young people who are good at building things are technological bellwethers, so any idea that seems interesting to them is disproportionately likely to lead somewhere valuable, even if they themselves don't realize it yet.
Now it should be clear why the YC partners care a lot about the projects that applicants have worked on and not at all about their GPAs. Projects are the best source of knowledge, the best source of founding teams, and the best source of startup ideas.
But encouraging students to work on their own projects may be difficult for universities. It will mean giving the students more free time, and universities may not like to do that.
Microsoft and Meta have something in common that few people realize. They both got started during reading period at Harvard. Reading period is the gap between the end of classes and the beginning of final exams. It's called reading period because students are
supposed
to spend it preparing for exams. But reading period also turns out to have the unique combination of qualities that make it perfect for starting new projects: the students are all on campus, and they don't have anything due the next day. That latter constraint, especially, is a huge drag on the most ambitious students. Merely eliminating it for a few weeks resulted in two trillion dollar companies. Imagine what the US GDP would be if reading period at Harvard were twice as long.
Universities will tend to resist the idea of keeping students less busy with coursework. Partly because administrators feel that if they want to achieve something, they have to do it by taking active measures. Achieving something merely by leaving students alone is alien to their nature.
And they should be left alone. These things should be the students' own projects; the university should resist the temptation to make them official. Partly because…（正文已截断）