The&nbsp; GitHub Copilot CLI ,&nbsp; GitHub Copilot app , and&nbsp; GitHub Copilot SDK &nbsp;are all backed by the Copilot agent runtime, an agentic harness that can be embedded into applications and services. It was originally written in TypeScript on Node.js and the V8 JavaScript engine for what is now the&nbsp; GitHub Copilot cloud agent &nbsp;(CCA), and the runtime stayed on that stack as the runtime and its capabilities grew rapidly. That has now changed. Using the GitHub Copilot app and the Copilot CLI, we completely rewrote the runtime into more than 800,000 lines of production Rust. AI agents wrote most of the code, spanning 128 pull requests that landed in main and shipped incrementally rather than waiting for a single cutover at the end. The few inevitable regressions were discovered and fixed quickly along the way, while the performance of the runtime improved by orders of magnitude. A project that would have taken a whole team of developers a year or two before agents was now completed primarily by a single developer, in only a few months, all while the rest of the team continued to greatly expand the runtime&rsquo;s capabilities and reach. Why we needed to port The Copilot agent runtime isn&rsquo;t just the engine behind the Copilot CLI. It backs a growing set of Microsoft, GitHub, and ecosystem solutions, for each of which AI support is, architecturally, a shell around the same runtime plus whatever customizations that solution needs. This includes not only the GitHub Copilot CLI and the GitHub Copilot app, but also the latest releases of VS Code, Visual Studio, CCA, Copilot Code Review ( CCR ), Copilot Cowork, Copilot Studio, and Excel and Outlook and PowerPoint and Word and&hellip; it goes on. These are very different products, and none of them wants to or should need to implement everything that goes into a production agent harness. They want all of the intelligence, security, reliability, and performance, and they want it shared so that a fix in one place fixes it in all of them. Most of the products listed in the previous paragraph initially implemented their own agent loop, but have since replaced it with the GitHub Copilot SDK, which is the entry point to the Copilot agent runtime. Doing so enables them to focus on their core business value and leave the details to the runtime. That&rsquo;s all the more important given the pace of the industry and the employed agent loop needing to stay always best-of-breed in the face of intense competition. So, shared runtime, good. The problem was the nature of the thing being shared. If we look at the CLI, it&rsquo;s logically a terminal UI (TUI) on top of an agent loop. As it happened, the whole stack was implemented in TypeScript, using Node.js as the framework and V8 for the execution engine, with Ink and React for UI. That&rsquo;s a respectable choice for a TUI application; TypeScript and Node.js are broadly accessible and enable very rapid application development. And for the needs of a console application, the performance implications in terms of startup, responsiveness, throughput, and memory consumption are also reasonable. They are, unfortunately, much less reasonable when you think about that implementation being used in other environments, with other constraints, with demands for things like fast startup and excellent server density due to low memory overhead. The architecture of the CLI and its runtime also contributed to challenges here. The whole industry is running extremely fast, and in that context, really bright people make decisions for delivery speed and market reach. The Copilot CLI was initially written and shipped quickly, and in doing so, the TUI and the runtime were fairly intertwined rather than separated into discrete layers. Then when an SDK was needed for programmatic access to that runtime, without clear separation of the layers, a pragmatic decision was made to layer the SDK on top of the CLI, even though logically you&rsquo;d expect the inverse architecture. Rather than only being accessible via commands provided by the user at the command line, the CLI was updated with a mode where it could be run headless, reading similar commands from stdin and writing responses to stdout. A JSON-RPC protocol could then be used to marshal function calls from an external process to and from the CLI. The SDK could then be embedded in arbitrary consuming programs, which would spawn a CLI process to host the agent loop out-of-process, with the SDK calling functions in the remote process via this JSON-RPC mechanism. Neat. Fast to get out the door. Flexible. But not great for the performance (startup, memory, throughput) and reliability of those consuming applications. Creating a new&nbsp; CopilotClient &nbsp;from the SDK meant spawning another process: const client = new CopilotClient(); await client.start(); // spawns the CLI as a subprocess const session = await client.createSession({ /* ... */ }); The process would need to launch and host Node and V8. It meant parsing the significant amount of JavaScript produced from the TypeScript code in the CLI, generating bytecode for it, and potentially optimizing hot code in later JIT tiers. It meant all the memory overhead associated with V8. It meant inheriting Node&rsquo;s threading model, which by default pushes us towards a model of all CPU-bound work being serialized. And it meant forced out-of-process communication just to make function calls. It meant every SDK consumer, in every language, ships Node.js or a bundled binary containing V8. It meant the C#, Python, Go, Java, and Rust SDKs all paid for a whole second language runtime per client, on the order of 100 MB of working set minimum, for a runtime their application otherwise had no use for. It meant every event, every message, and every abstracted session file system read and write was pushed across a process boundary. It meant a crash in Node took the session with it. And it meant anyone deploying this had, at a minimum, two processes to supervise, monitor, and debug. Instead, we wanted a runtime: that does not include the TUI, that&rsquo;s its own library the TUI and other applications and services can be properly layered on top of cleanly. implemented in a language with minimal dependencies and minimal overhead. implemented in a way that it can be cleanly embedded in-process rather than being forced out-of-process. implemented in a language with top characteristics around performance and scalability and reliability. implemented in a language that&rsquo;s great for interop, such that it can be used cleanly by all six Copilot SDK language versions (C#, TypeScript, Python, Rust, Go, Java) with that stack&rsquo;s foreign function interface (FFI) mechanism. implemented with a tool chain that provides a more modern security posture, with less supply chain risk and greater support for correct-by-construction code. For all those reasons, as well as softer reasons (such as team experience and industry direction), we chose Rust. This is in no way a claim that every large TypeScript program should become Rust. Our requirements emphasized embedding through a C ABI, low startup and steady-state overhead, and predictable resource use. Rust made those goals possible, at the expense of other complications, e.g. we had to represent lifetimes and shared state explicitly (the lifecycle regressions discussed later highlight the implications of that). The right target language legitimately varies from application to application. There were then two key related tasks undertaken: Separating the TUI-specific code from the runtime, so that the former is layered strictly on top of the latter, and more specifically layered strictly on top of the SDK&rsquo;s public surface area. Today, the CLI still calls directly into runtime internals in several places; moving it fully onto the SDK&rsquo;s surface area is ongoing work. Porting that runtime layer to 100% Rust, resulting in a pure native binary ex…（正文已截断）