Predicting model behavior before release by simulating deployment
Using realistic conversation contexts to better estimate undesired model behavior before release.
Before releasing a new model, labs need to understand not just what it can do, but how it is likely to behave in real-world use, including where it might introduce new risks. This becomes even more important as capabilities increase. As part of our pre-deployment safety review, we leverage targeted evaluations, red-teaming, and other checks to understand model behavior. We’ve now started using a method for simulating model deployments before they happen, which adds a complementary signal: a deployment-like preview of how a candidate model may behave before it reaches users.
Deployment Simulation is a method for simulating a future deployment before it happens. We do so by replaying previous conversations in a privacy-preserving manner with a new candidate model. This enables us to study how the new model responds in realistic contexts before release, including whether new undesired behaviors emerge and how often they may appear.
Across multiple GPT‑5‑series Thinking deployments, Deployment Simulation improved our estimates of undesired model behavior rates, helped surface novel forms of misalignment before release, and helped reduce the risk that models would be able to tell they were being tested. We also applied the method to challenging agentic rollouts, showing that it can extend beyond standard chat to more complex agent settings involving tool use, and can also be used for risk assessment before internal model deployments.
We have already used insights from Deployment Simulation during model development to identify blind spots in traditional evaluations and inform mitigations and deployment decisions. As we make the pipeline easier to run, we expect it to play a larger role in the future model development process.
Pre-deployment evaluations used across the industry generally consist of a mix of synthetic, manually written, or production prompts intentionally selected to be difficult, high severity, or adversarial. These evaluations have generally had two intertwined goals: assessing how the model responds when stress-tested in situations that have a very small chance of occurring in deployment traffic, and gaining a general understanding of undesired model behaviors, including finding novel undesired behaviors and predicting their deployment-time frequencies.
While traditional evaluations remain crucial for the first goal, Deployment Simulation represents a significant step forward with regards to the second goal for non-tail risks (in our experiments, our approach can’t be expected to measure behaviors that occur with frequency less than 1 in 200,000 messages). Deployment Simulation’s strength comes from side-stepping some core challenges with traditional evaluations:
- Coverage: it is difficult to be confident that evaluation prompts will cover all possible types of undesired model behavior. Measuring new types of undesired behavior requires creating new evaluations, and knowing what harms to measure. This can be time and labor intensive, and evaluations can saturate over time.
- Selection biases: traditional evaluations generally are built with specific undesired model behaviors in mind, selected in ways that bias towards contexts have previously occurred. This may make their estimates less informative about incidence of such behaviors in the full breadth of the deployment distribution.
- Being recognizable as tests by models: models have been increasingly able to determine they are being tested, which can distort their behavior and our downstream measurements of their safety. While many of the traditional evaluations we use at OpenAI are also drawn from production traffic and don’t suffer from this issue, this is a common concern for many traditional evaluations used across the industry.
The main technique behind Deployment Simulation is simple: we take recent conversations from deployment, remove the original assistant response from the older model, and regenerate it with a candidate model to be released. We evaluate the completions by searching for new failure modes, and estimate deployment-time undesired behavior frequency based on frequency in this deployment-like distribution. We can perform the same measurements after release on real deployment traffic, enabling us to validate our pre-deployment forecasts.
Deployment Simulation significantly mitigates the three limitations listed above: sampling bias is addressed by using a distribution of evaluation prompts representative of recent usage. Deployment Simulation with representative prompts can also mitigate concerns about coverage: we get greater coverage of undesirable model behaviors by simply simulating more traffic. This tradeoff between compute and coverage is important, because it makes the quality of this axis of risk assessment scale with compute, rather than the manual effort required to build more evaluations. Models also don’t seem to be able to distinguish between conversations obtained via deployment simulation and real deployment traffic.
High level comparison between traditional evaluations and Deployment Simulation
To evaluate Deployment Simulation, we pre-registered predictions for the deployment-time frequency of 20 types of undesirable behavior for GPT‑5.4 Thinking. We also ran retrospective studies across other deployments of Thinking models of the GPT‑5‑series. The model behaviors we analyze cover both misalignment and disallowed content categories which we have been reporting in system cards (e.g. the model lying about tools, or outputting disallowed sexual content). While for these results we only track 20 categories of undesired model behavior, and only look for novel misaligned behaviors, Deployment Simulation is a general technique which could be applied to simulate any deployment-time model property.
The production traffic we leveraged was also from Thinking models of the GPT‑5‑series. Before running our evaluations, we automatically removed account-linked identifiers and identifiable information. In accordance with our privacy policy, we only analyzed ChatGPT traffic from users who allow their data to be used for model improvements. We report only aggregate findings from these evaluations. In total, we analyzed approximately 1.3 million de-identified conversations across GPT‑5 Thinking through GPT‑5.4 deployments, spanning August 2025 to March 2026.
We evaluate the quality of the pre-deployment risk-assessment produced by Deployment Simulation in three main ways:
- Taxonomy coverage: did post-release auditing surface any important misaligned behaviors missing from our initial bad behavior taxonomy?
- Directional accuracy: did the simulation correctly predict whether deployment prevalence would increase or decrease for known behaviors?
- Rate calibration: were our pre-deployment estimates close to the rates we later observed in deployment? Achieving good rate calibration requires more than directional accuracy, making this the highest possible quality standard.
We also measure how much models are able to tell they are in an evaluation during Deployment Simulation, and test how robust the method is to different forms of deployment traffic and to challenging tool use settings.
Across GPT‑5‑series Thinking deployments, Deployment Simulation outperformed challenging-prompt baselines in determining actual risk rate, was able to surface calculator hacking before release, and appeared potentially indistinguishable from deployment to the model.
Overview of our predictions. For a visualization of all predictions for Thinking model deployments of the GPT‑5‑series, see Figure 2. The predictions for GPT‑5.4 Thinking were pre-registered, while the others were retroactive predictions. In aggregate, our predictions had a median multiplicative error of 1.5x (e.g. if the undesirable behavior rate is 10 in 100k, t…（正文已截断）