May 1, 2026
The Google Research Science team
Our approach to open science is built on principles of responsible, inclusive, and rigorous research, empowering a global community to drive high-impact discoveries across disciplines and accelerate progress for all.
A scientific breakthrough reaches its full potential only when it empowers others to replicate and expand upon findings, pushing the boundaries of science even further. At Google Research, we recognize that open-source software and open-access datasets are drivers of modern science. We believe that creating these resources responsibly and maintaining them through partnerships with the global scientific community embodies the spirit of collaboration. In this way, we uphold the principles of open science, ensuring that innovation is not a siloed event but a catalyst for worldwide progress.
Whether it’s the Transformer architecture that reshaped automated language processing, or our specialized models transforming medicine, genomics, neuroscience, climate, energy, and a host of other efforts across the physical, life, and social sciences, we are proud of the work we’ve shared and how it’s being used by researchers around the globe to unlock their own groundbreaking discoveries. This open approach complements our breadth of initiatives across Google to engage and strengthen the research and science ecosystem, including through APIs, publications, conferences, trusted tester programs and private partnerships.
We collaborate with numerous specialized organizations across scientific disciplines and global regions, such as the University of California Santa Cruz (UCSC) Genomics Institute, Janelia Research Campus, Institute of Science & Technology Austria (ISTA), the Centre for Population Genomics, CSIRO - Australia’s national science agency, and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).
Beyond individual organizations, we actively support widespread scientific consortia undertaking monumental, global challenges, including the Human Pangenome Research Consortium, the Earth BioGenome Project and the NIH BRAIN Initiative.
Ultimately, our open-science philosophy extends to the broader ecosystem and we are investing in building communities of practice for individual scientific developers, starting in India, Korea, Japan and Australia.
Over the last decade, we have developed, released, maintained and evolved several key open-source technologies and open access datasets. To date these have empowered an active ecosystem of more than 250,000 researchers and developers worldwide.
The true measure of our open-science philosophy is the real-world impact achieved by our partners and end users. Below are some examples detailing how our open tools and datasets have enabled further breakthroughs and been used to help communities across the globe.
Our partnership with the open science community is an accelerating mission. As we transition deeper into the era of AI-enabled science, we are inspired by the way generative AI is profoundly changing how researchers work and collaborate. We believe that agentic workflows will allow scientists to encode their knowledge into specialized skills and transform their methods into accessible, scalable tools. This shift will empower the global community to rapidly reproduce findings, extend complex methodologies, and share their work globally.
In this fast-paced new paradigm, communication and collaboration are more critical than ever. Open-source software and open datasets serve as the essential foundation for this ecosystem. The breakthroughs we celebrate today are merely the initial blueprints for a world with faster innovation and universal sharing of scientific knowledge.
At Google Research, we will continue to build the tools and infrastructure that support this new era of discovery. We look forward to seeing what the global scientific community achieves next.
We give special thanks to our many global research partners and to the wider scientific community of users that builds upon our open models, infrastructure, datasets, and other tools to make discoveries and to pioneer, pilot, and implement innovations that create positive global societal impact.