Key findings
- Building on prior work, we introduce a framework for studying interactive agentic coding based on a privacy-preserving analysis of ~400,000 Claude Code sessions from between October 2025 and April 2026. We evaluate the composition of tasks, human-AI collaboration, and success rates.
- In a typical session, people make most of the planning decisions (what to do) and Claude makes most of the execution decisions (how to do it). The greater domain expertise a person brings to a session, the more work Claude does per instruction. On coding tasks, every major occupation succeeds––accomplishes what the person set out to do, with verifiable evidence like passing tests or committed work––at nearly the same rate as software engineers, on average.
- The more domain expertise a person has, the more often the session ends in success—though the gap between intermediate and expert users is modest. Over the seven months we observe, the share of sessions spent debugging fell by nearly half, and usage shifted toward more end-to-end agentic use: deploying and running code, analyzing data, and writing non-code documents.
- Over those seven months, the value of the typical task, which we estimate through a comparison to freelance job postings, rose in almost every kind of work—about 25% on average.
Introduction
Agentic coding has taken off. The share of GitHub projects with coding agent activity has more than doubled since late 2025,1 and Claude Code users now spend an average of 20 hours per week using the tool.2 Can people without formal coding experience successfully direct an agent through complex technical work? And what will rapid adoption and improvement of these tools mean for knowledge work broadly? While we don’t have full answers to these questions yet, we look to Claude Code usage data for early signals.
This report provides evidence on how Claude Code is used in practice, based on a privacy-preserving analysis of ~400,000 interactive sessions from ~235,000 people between October 2025 and April 2026. It builds on prior work focused on measures of autonomy in Claude Code sessions, and how Claude Code is changing work at Anthropic.3 Here, we introduce a framework for describing interactive AI coding-assistant usage: what kind of work is being done, who is doing it, and whether it succeeds. We focus on Claude Code usage through a command-line interface (CLI), Claude.ai, or the Claude Code desktop app.4 By tracking how agentic coding usage changes as models get more capable, we can better understand how these tools affect the labor market for coding professionals and knowledge workers.
What happens on Claude Code may be a preview of where knowledge work is headed, as agents become embedded in non-coding work. We find that Claude is handling more complex and more valuable tasks. At the same time, there remains a clear division of labor in agentic coding: People decide what to build, and the agent decides how to build it.
We also see evidence that domain expertise, and not coding proficiency, amplifies effective use of the tool. In particular, domain experts succeed more often, and more easily recover from errors and misunderstandings. However, the gap between experts and intermediates is modest—suggesting that proficiency in a domain is enough to use the tool almost as effectively as those with deep mastery.
These findings give us an early read on possible transitions in the labor market. In our data, success is determined by how well a person understands the problem they are trying to solve, not whether they’re trained in coding. If these patterns hold across the economy, it suggests that while agentic coding tools may be absorbing some implementation-heavy work, they are also rewarding those with firm understanding of the problems they solve on the job. Coding agents are not substituting for domain expertise—the more understanding a worker brings to an agent, the more quality work the agent is able to do.
The division of labor
What people use Claude Code for
To understand what people are using Claude Code for, we classify each session into one of nine work modes—the single activity that best describes what the session is trying to accomplish.5 Four modes involve writing or maintaining code directly: building something new, fixing something broken, testing code, and orchestrating other agents or automated pipelines. Another category is operating software—deploying, configuring, running pipelines, monitoring systems. Two categories are more about working out what to do: understanding how an existing system works, and planning a change before making it. And two take actions unrelated to code, or where code is incidental to the final product: analyzing data, and communicating via presentations and other prose-based documents.
About 56% of sessions consist of writing (25%), fixing (26%), or testing and orchestrating code (5%). Operating software comprises 17%, while 14% of sessions are planning or exploring, and 13% produce analysis or prose (Figure 1).
We classify each session by having a model read its transcript, then using our privacy-preserving analysis tool, we check them against telemetry that's recorded automatically for every session, including whether any lines of code were added or deleted. The two sources have high agreement—for instance, more than 90% of sessions our classifier labeled as creating or modifying code showed code changes in the telemetry. See the Appendix for details.
Who decides what
How autonomous is Claude Code? Capability evaluations suggest the ceiling is high and rising: on benchmarks such as METR's time-horizon evaluations, frontier models can now complete software tasks that would take a person hours, autonomously working through obstacles along the way. But what does usage actually look like in practice? Here, we look at how much steering is done by the person and by Claude in real sessions.
We investigate this question from two angles. First, we focus on the extent to which people are entrusting decisions to Claude, and second we look at how many actions they give to Claude. To understand the division of decision-making in a session, we build a privacy-preserving decision attribution classifier based on the content of a session. We ask a classifier to list all the meaningful decisions in a session. We separate these decisions into planning (what to do, which approach to take, what counts as done) and execution (which files to change, what code to write, what language to write in, which commands to run). The classifier then attributes each decision to Claude or to the user, giving every session two numbers: the user's share of planning decisions and the user's share of execution decisions.
On average, people make about 70% of the planning decisions but only 20% of the execution decisions (Figure 2). In practice, there is a clear division of labor in agentic coding––people decide what to build, and the agent decides how to build it.
To understand the delegation of actions in a session, we look at the session’s structure instead of its content. A Claude Code session involves Claude and the user going back and forth trading prompts (from the user) and actions (taken by Claude)––the user writes a prompt and Claude goes off and does some work, and then the user writes another prompt, and so forth. In a typical session, there are about four such turns. In our historical data from October to April, each prompt the user sends sets off a chain of around 10 actions taken by Claude on average––and sometimes over 100.6 In each turn, Claude reads files, edits code, runs commands, and writes on average 2,400 words of output.
How much Claude does between check-ins largely tracks who is making the decisions. When the user keeps control of execution (i.e. makes over 80% of execution decisions), Claude takes fewer actions per turn (about eight actions). And when Claude takes control of planning (i.e. makes over 80% of planning decis…（正文已截断）