Build from anywhere with Cursor for iOS
Cursor is now available as a native iOS app in public beta, so you can build from anywhere.
Until now, developers have worked around the limits of their local machines, keeping laptops half-open and caffeinated everywhere they go.
With Cursor for iOS, you can launch always-on agents in the cloud, or control agents running on your computer from your phone. Kick them off when ideas strike, get notified when work is ready for review, and merge PRs on the go.
Whether your agents are running on your machine or in the cloud, you can move work forward from wherever you are.
Get Cursor for iOSLaunch and track agents from anywhere
Whether you're catching a flight, cooking a meal, or in between sets at the gym, you can now act on moments of inspiration or curiosity.
Open the Cursor mobile app, choose a repo, and launch an agent the same way you would on the desktop app. You can pick any frontier model, describe ideas out loud with voice input, and use slash commands to guide Cursor in the right direction.
For agents running on your computer, use Remote Control to continue directing them from your phone. To ensure your machine remains reachable while you're away from your desk, you can enable a setting that keeps your computer awake.
New ways of working from your phone
At Cursor, we use the mobile app for everything from small, well-scoped tasks to long-running projects. It has enabled new workflows for our team and early testers:
- Handling incidents while on call: When you get paged at lunch, you can kick off an agent to investigate and propose a fix. By the time you get back to your computer, you'll have a PR ready for review.
- Resolving customer issues: If a customer reports a time-sensitive bug while you're away from your desk, you can start an agent from your phone to reproduce the issue, inspect the relevant code, and work toward a fix.
- Acting on feedback from other mobile apps: When you see user feedback on X or other platforms, take a screenshot, annotate it, and send it to an agent as visual context. This is often the fastest way to start design or UI changes.
Stay in the loop
Once an agent starts, you can leave the app. Cursor keeps you updated with Live Activities on your lock screen and push notifications when an agent finishes, needs input, or is ready for review.
Beyond code, cloud agents produce demos, screenshots, and logs that make it easy to validate their work. When an agent is done, you can review these generated artifacts, inspect diffs, leave follow-up instructions, or merge the PR directly from the app.
Handoff between local and cloud
Cloud agents run in isolated virtual machines with full development environments to test, verify, and demo work. Since they operate asynchronously with their own tools and resources, cloud agents can run for longer and iterate toward merge-ready PRs without intervention.
To take advantage of these capabilities, send a local plan to a cloud agent or move active agents to the cloud to keep running. You can move the cloud session back to your computer to test changes locally before merging.
What's next
Over time, the experience of running agents in the cloud will become indistinguishable from running them on your local machine. Until then, we want to make it easy to work with agents across both environments with Remote Control and fluid handoffs between local and cloud.
We are also working on adding the ability to create repo-less chats to make it easier to kick off tasks that don't require codebase context. Teams are already using Cursor today with MCPs to query Datadog logs, summarize activity across Slack channels, and more.
Cursor for iOS is available now in public beta on all paid plans. Get 75% off on Composer 2.5 runs in the mobile app now through July 5, 2026.
Download for iOS to start building from your phone, or read the docs to learn more.