Subscribe to the Frontier Red Team newsletter
Get updates on our latest red-teaming research and findings.
Anthropic and Andon Labs
Several of our research projects over the last year have looked at how frontier models interact with the physical world. In Project Vend, AI models ran a small shop; Project Fetch was an early look at robots as the intermediary between digital models and physical objects. As we recently noted in Project Fetch: Phase two, we’re already seeing improvements in model capability such that their ability to use off-the-shelf robots is on track to approach the ease with which coding agents use software tools.
Working again with our partners at Andon Labs, we developed a new series of demonstrations and evaluations that assess AI models’ ability to use a flying drone to autonomously perform a simple locate-and-follow task of the kind used in aerial surveillance, culminating in a new benchmark: Drone-Bench.
We expect AI models to become broadly capable at many things that humans can do. Operating hardware, in particular robots, is one such capability. Being able to do this opens up a large surface over which AI could contribute to the economy, but likewise opens up a new area of risk. A key reason why Anthropic has a Frontier Red Team is to measure capabilities like this, giving us situational awareness into how close we are to the world in which AI can autonomously pilot robots—with all the attendant benefits and risks. Aerial drones are especially important because they are readily available and frequently used by professionals and hobbyists. They have been used to increase crop yields in agriculture and target opposing forces in warfare. Like AI itself, drones are a dual-use technology; it is crucial to have better evidence about their intersection.
By combining actual flight demonstrations and decomposing the constituent tasks into replicable evaluations, we can look back at the rapid progress of models so far, and project their capabilities in the near future. As is so often the case, our findings point toward a world of democratized opportunity and risk. Technology developers, civil society, and governments will need to converge on effective norms and governance frameworks in response.
The core task we tested in Project Fetch—getting a robot dog to retrieve a beach ball—was neither especially practical nor especially concerning. In this project, we chose an objective with clearer utility and policy relevance: a simple locate-and-follow task used in aerial surveillance. Capabilities like automated person-detection and tracking can have legitimate purposes such as search and rescue, disaster response, and lawful public safety uses. But this is a class of capabilities that is also subject to abuse, either through overreach of a legitimate authority or by unaccountable private individuals or organizations. The work we report here thus more closely matches the “dual-use” nature of AI models.
In these experiments, we ask the model to control a quad-rotor drone in an indoor office environment in order to locate and follow a person.1 This requires a number of complex sub-tasks. The AI model needs to develop schema for controlling the aircraft, mapping and navigating the obstacle-laden indoor space, finding the target individual from a reference photo, and following them (plus reacquiring the target if they move out of frame).
Individually, there are known algorithms for accomplishing all of these tasks. What is not trivial is for the AI model to understand the challenges, identify the preexisting resources it can use to solve them, adapt those off-the-shelf solutions to its current situation, and execute the mission in real time. As we will see, the difficulty—both individually and in chaining these tasks together—is sufficient to distinguish between models of varying intelligence and plot the trajectory of capability improvement.
Drone-Bench is a benchmark created by Andon Labs (in consultation with Anthropic) to test if AI agents are capable of controlling a drone for surveillance tasks. Anthropic has not been given access to Drone-Bench; Andon Labs ran the evaluations we report here.
First, Andon Labs took the main goal—find and follow a designated person in an office using the aerial drone—and decomposed it into five sub-tasks, all of which are necessary and, taken together, are likely to be sufficient for accomplishing the overall objective. These sub-tasks are:
Next, each of these real-world tasks was reproduced in software so that we could run the models through them multiple times and far faster than needing to set up the physical demo for each instance (this is an improvement over Project Fetch, for example, which was an entirely physical experiment).
It was also important to establish a meaningful baseline of performance. Human-only baselines increasingly don’t reflect the reality of contemporary software engineering, so Andon worked with coding agents to develop algorithms for each sub-task. Putting all of these algorithms crafted by human-AI teams together allowed them to demonstrate end-to-end success, as shown in the below video.
A task is considered completed if the model meets or exceeds the baseline. Thus, if a model can complete all tasks, we can infer that it has the ability to autonomously control a drone to do at least as well on this surveillance task as the team at Andon Labs did.
For more details, check out Andon Labs’ post about Drone-Bench.
It is worth underscoring that the evaluation’s baseline is neither the floor of unassisted human capability nor the ceiling of what is possible with concerted human-AI collaboration. Rather, it is indicative of what can be achieved in the present by AI experts (but not full-time roboticists) using a realistic suite of modern tools. The interesting question is if and when models operating essentially autonomously reliably pass this baseline of reasonable and realistic effort, as that is the point at which pressure to reduce human oversight may intensify—making deliberate, use case-specific judgments about the appropriate human role all the more important.
Andon tested 15 models from three developers: GPT-4o, GPT-4o Nov, o1, o3, Claude Opus 4, Gemini 2.5 Pro, GPT-5, Gemini 3.1 Pro, Opus 4.5, GPT-5.2, Opus 4.7, GPT-5.5, Opus 4.8, Fable 5, and GPT-5.6 Sol. The overall trend we observe is that newer models get successively further on all sub-tasks. Of these tasks, models are most successful at detection and following, and least successful at reconstruction and localization.
The best performing model was Claude Fable 5, which brings the frontier past the baseline on all tasks except reconstruction. When we then tested its ability to execute the entire demonstration end-to-end on the real drone, it performed noticeably better than the baseline at detecting and following.
However, due to errors from reconstruction that compounded in localization and navigation, it was unable to autonomously navigate between rooms (as you can see in the first part of the below video).
Clearly, Fable’s failure to accurately reconstruct the room is a huge stumbling block. But given models’ capabilities in the other phases, it really just amounts to the missing piece. Once it’s in place, end-to-end performance will suddenly be within reach. This is an advantage of decomposing the evaluation into constituent tasks: we are better positioned to avoid surprise. What would look like a discontinuous jump is revealed to be gradual progress in several necessary, but not sufficient, sub-tasks.
The sub-task view also surfaces encouraging signs. A trend we're seeing when reading Fable 5's submissions is that the model is doing local analysis before submitting its implementation. In one submission, the model calculated the drone's camera extrinsics by analyzing a video from the simulation, estimating the camera tilt to within four degrees of the true value by using the grout lines on the floor to recover the …（正文已截断）