CUGA Apps
Access and manage your CUGA applications from a single dashboard
TL;DR — Building an agent is mostly plumbing: tools, state, guardrails, scaling from one agent to many. CUGA (pip install cuga), short for Configurable Generalist Agent, the Agent Harness for the Enterprise from IBM handles that, so you write just a tool list and a prompt. We built two-dozen single-file apps to prove it. Read one end to end here, then see how the same agent runs sovereign and governed in production without a rewrite.
Most agentic apps start with a week of plumbing before the agent does anything useful. You pick a framework, wire up a model client, write tool adapters, build some way to stream state to a UI, and somewhere in there you also decide what the agent is actually for. The interesting part arrives last.
CUGA inverts that. It's the open-source agent harness from IBM that handles the planning, the execution loop, the tool calls, and the state plumbing for you. What's left is the part that's actually yours: which tools the agent can reach, and what you tell it to do. To show what that feels like in practice, we built cuga-apps: two dozen small, working apps, each a single FastAPI file wrapping one CugaAgent, from a movie recommender to an IBM Cloud architecture advisor. They exist to be read and copied. You can click through the live gallery.
This article walks through one of them, names what the harness takes off your plate, and shows where the same code goes when you need it governed for production. No new framework to learn first. If you've written a FastAPI route, you can read every line.
The fair question to ask of anything in this space is what it saves you from writing. CUGA's answer: the orchestration around a model that you'd otherwise rebuild every time.
It plans before it acts, then executes with a mix of tool calls and generated code (CodeAct). On a long task that runs twenty steps, the thing that breaks most agents is losing track of intermediate results and re-deriving them (often wrong) on the next turn; CUGA holds that state and runs a reflection step that can catch a bad call and re-plan instead of barreling ahead. That machinery is why it has topped agent benchmarks like AppWorld and WebArena rather than something you tune by hand.
You also set the cost/latency tradeoff from config rather than code: Fast, Balanced, and Accurate reasoning modes, with code execution in whatever sandbox you trust (local, Docker/Podman, or E2B cloud). Same agent definition, different dial. That dial matters more than it sounds. Most harnesses assume a frontier model sits underneath and lean on it to recover when a plan goes sideways; CUGA does that work itself. The planning, the reflection step, the variable-tracking that keeps a long run on course — that's the harness carrying load the model would otherwise have to, which is what lets a smaller open-weight model hold up where it normally wouldn't. It's why the hosted apps run on gpt-oss-120b rather than a frontier API. Running the biggest model you can call is the usual bet; CUGA's is that a smaller open one is enough.
None of the individual pieces is unique to CUGA. What's different is that they come pre-assembled, so you configure them instead of wiring them together. The API you touch is small — build a CugaAgent with a tool list and a prompt, then await agent.invoke(...). Everything below that line is the harness.
Concretely, that's interchangeable tools (OpenAPI, MCP, and LangChain functions all bind the same way), long-horizon planning with variable management and self-correction (the machinery behind #1 on AppWorld from 07/25 - 02/26 and WebArena  from 02/25 - 09/25), declarative guardrails, multi-agent delegation over A2A, Docling-powered RAG, and one-env-var provider switching (pip install cuga, then OpenAI, watsonx, Ollama, and more) — each something you'd otherwise build yourself. The first word of the name does the work: Configurable; the hard parts are handled, so your job is just the task.
Here's the IBM Cloud advisor — an agent that recommends real IBM Cloud services for an architecture. The whole thing fits in one file: a main.py with the agent factory, the tools, and the prompt, plus a small UI.
The whole agent is this:
def make_agent():
    from cuga import CugaAgent
    from _llm import create_llm
    return CugaAgent(
        model=create_llm(
            provider=os.getenv("LLM_PROVIDER"),
            model=os.getenv("LLM_MODEL"),
        ),
        tools=_make_tools(),
        special_instructions=_SYSTEM,
        cuga_folder=str(_DIR / ".cuga"),
    )
Four arguments. The model comes from a small factory (create_llm) that speaks to OpenAI, Anthropic, watsonx, LiteLLM, or Ollama depending on an environment variable. Nothing in the app code knows which model sits behind it. The cuga_folder is where this app keeps its state and any policies. The two arguments that carry the app are tools and special_instructions.
The tools mix a local function with a hosted one:
def _make_tools():
    from langchain_core.tools import tool
    @tool
    def search_ibm_catalog(query: str) -> str:
        """Search the IBM Cloud Global Catalog for real IBM Cloud services.
        Always call this before recommending services to verify they exist."""
        ...  # hits the catalog API, returns JSON
    from _mcp_bridge import load_tools
    web_tools = load_tools(["web"])
    return [search_ibm_catalog, *web_tools]
There's a pattern here that holds across every app: a split between MCP tools and inline tools. Generic, stateless capabilities come from shared MCP servers; load_tools(["web"]) pulls in web search without you hosting anything. Anything specific to this app gets defined inline as a normal Python function, like search_ibm_catalog, whose docstring is what the agent reads to decide when to call it. You write the one tool that's yours and borrow the rest.
The cloud advisor's prompt tells the agent to search the catalog before naming any service, recommend three to seven services with each one's role in the design, and never invent service names. That last rule earns its keep: an agent recommending IBM Cloud services that don't exist is worse than no agent, so the prompt forces every recommendation through a catalog lookup first. Prompts written as ordered steps with explicit "don't make things up" rules behave; prompts written as personas wander.
That's the app. A tool, a procedure, four lines of constructor. The FastAPI routes around it are ordinary web code: the browser posts a question to /ask, and the live panel polls a /session/{thread_id} endpoint for state. There's no database; state is a per-thread_id Python dict that only the agent writes to, through its tools. The moment the agent calls a tool mid-run, the panel redraws. The UI isn't a second copy of the logic; it's a view onto state the agent mutated.
One detail is easy to skip and turns out to be load-bearing: every inline tool returns the same small envelope. Success looks like {"ok": true, "data": {...}}; failure looks like {"ok": false, "code": "...", "error": "..."}.
It looks like boilerplate. It isn't. CUGA's planner handles a declared failure gracefully ("geocoding didn't return anything, skip that section and keep going") and chokes on an undeclared one, where a raw stack trace bubbles up mid-plan and the run derails. Across the apps, the ones that worked reliably were the ones whose tools never threw a bare exception at the agent. A boring convention, but it's the difference between an agent that recovers and one that face-plants.
The split above only pays off because the generic half is already running somewhere. The capabilities the apps reach for over and over — web search, Wikipedia/arXiv, geocoding and weather, finance quotes, and a few more — live in 7 public MCP servers (36 tools) hosted on IBM Code Engine, no auth required. A small bridge resolves their URLs automatically, and the live gallery ships an MCP Tool Explorer t…（正文已截断）