Redeploying Fable 5
- Claude Fable 5 and Mythos 5 redeployed - Jul 1, 2026 - Access to Claude Fable 5 and Mythos 5 is now restored. 
On Friday, June 12, the US government applied export controls to our newest models, Claude Fable 5 and Claude Mythos 5. This required us to restrict access to foreign nationals, whether inside or outside the United States. Because the order took effect immediately and we had no reliable way to verify nationality in real-time, we suspended access to both models for all users.
As of today, June 30, the export controls on Fable 5 and Mythos 5 have been lifted.
Fable 5 will be available starting tomorrow, Wednesday, July 1, to users globally on the Claude Platform, Claude.ai, Claude Code, and Claude Cowork. For Pro, Max, Team, and select Enterprise plans,1 Fable 5 will be included for up to 50% of weekly usage limits through July 7, after which it will be available via usage credits. We will re-enable access on AWS, Google Cloud, and Microsoft Foundry as quickly as possible.
We have also restored access to Mythos 5 for a set of US organizations, following the US government’s approval on June 26. We continue to coordinate with the government to expand access to the broader set of domestic and international partners in the Glasswing program.
In the remainder of this post, we provide further details and updates in four areas:
- A timeline of events, including updates we made to our safeguards. We discuss the events that led to the export control directive and how we addressed it with new safeguards.
- Our general approach to safeguards. We provide more context on how we use safety classifiers to detect potentially dangerous cybersecurity uses of our models.
- A shared industry framework. Although we have reached a constructive resolution, these events have made clear that the industry needs a consistent way to assess and fix potential “jailbreaks” of AI models (techniques that bypass a model’s safeguards).2 A shared standard for judging the severity of a given jailbreak would help AI developers triage new findings as they arise, launch highly capable models with greater safety, and communicate the level of risk consistently to government and industry partners. Together with Amazon, Microsoft, Google, and other Glasswing partners, we’ve started to develop such a framework, and we outline it below.
- Deeper government collaboration. We’re also strengthening our level of collaboration with the US government on new pre-release testing, information sharing, and research collaboration. We describe this deeper collaboration in the final section.
Timeline and safeguard updates
We released Fable 5 and Mythos 5 on Tuesday, June 9. They both share the same underlying model, but Fable 5 was released with strong safeguards to make it safer for general use. Mythos 5, which has fewer safeguards, was only released to a small number of trusted Project Glasswing partners for use in defensive cybersecurity.
The export control directive on June 12 came after the government became aware of a report in which Amazon researchers had found a method of bypassing Fable 5’s safeguards: prompting it so that it identified a number of software vulnerabilities. In one case, the model produced code demonstrating how the relevant vulnerability could be exploited. Over the past two weeks, we have worked closely with the government and other partners, including Amazon, to review the report and evidence.
Our testing confirmed that many less capable models—including Claude Opus 4.8, GPT-5.5, and Kimi K2.7—could identify the same vulnerabilities as Fable 5 did in the report. When it came to the demonstration of how to exploit the single vulnerability, every model we tested could produce the same demonstration as Fable 5 (including Claude Haiku 4.5, Sonnet 4.6, Opus 4.6, Opus 4.7, Opus 4.8, GPT-5.4, GPT-5.5, and Kimi K2.7).
Importantly, the reported technique did not expose any unique Mythos-level cyber capabilities. The behavior reflected a borderline case for Fable 5’s safeguards—as we will explain below, there are some tasks that are unlikely to be dangerous but are nonetheless blocked by the safeguards out of an abundance of caution. The reported technique allowed access to one such behavior, but it only involved routine defensive cybersecurity work.
Even so, we moved quickly to address the reported bypass. Working closely with the government, we trained an improved safety classifier that targets and blocks the behavior described in the report. Users will be notified if a request to Fable 5 is blocked, and the request will instead be sent to Opus 4.8.
The new classifier means that the specific technique described in the Amazon report is blocked in over 99% of cases. In a very small fraction of cases the model may provide information that isn’t detailed enough to help a cyberattacker. As we describe below, the model’s safeguards are not expected to block all low-risk routine cyberdefense capabilities—just those that are potentially harmful. Researchers from the US Department of Commerce’s Center for AI Standards and Innovation (CAISI) have tested both our prior and new safeguards and agree that they are extraordinarily strong.
The new classifier also comes at the cost of flagging benign requests more often during routine coding and debugging tasks. As with all our safeguards, we’ll continue to refine this to better distinguish genuine misuse from legitimate requests and reduce false positives.
Our approach to cybersecurity safeguards
Claude Mythos 5 can be used to find and exploit software vulnerabilities more effectively than any other model—and all but the most skilled human security experts. These prodigious cybersecurity capabilities make it uniquely attractive to malicious actors who wish to misuse it in cyberattacks.
Claude Fable 5, however, provides no such unique offensive capabilities. This is because we launched it with the strongest safeguards we’ve ever applied to a model. In the month prior to launch, we transferred staff from various teams within Anthropic to double the number of researchers and engineers working on this problem.
Fable 5 launched with a variety of safety mechanisms, each of which alone does not provide perfect defense but when combined make the model very difficult to misuse (an approach known as “defense in depth”). Some defenses involve training the model to decline to assist with dangerous requests; others involve retroactively analyzing patterns of misuse.
One particularly important safety mechanism involves classifiers—smaller automated AI systems that, during an interaction, detect when the model is asked to perform a potentially harmful cybersecurity task (or produces potentially harmful outputs). When this occurs, the classifiers block the model from responding to requests. The ultimate goal of these classifiers is to prevent the model from engaging in uniquely dangerous behaviors.
Like all safety mechanisms, classifiers can make mistakes. They sometimes fail to notice potentially dangerous content, and in some cases they can be deliberately “jailbroken”: users can prompt the model in unusual ways to trick the classifiers and get the model to produce harmful outputs that the system should have blocked.
We therefore deliberately set the safety classifiers to trigger on a set of requests that we know are likely benign. This “safety margin” approach means that a request has to look very clearly safe to avoid triggering the classifier (see row A in the diagram below). Users experience the safety margin as a model refusing to respond to some reasonable, non-harmful requests.
For Fable 5, we made this safety margin much larger than in any prior launch (row B), meaning that many more benign requests would be blocked. We understood that these kinds of false positives would be frustrating for users, but made this tradeoff in the interest of making the model’s other capabilities widely available.
The safety margin also helps mitigat…（正文已截断）