How agents are transforming work
A new Economic Research paper measuring Codex’s economic potential at the frontier.
Agentic AI changes the unit of knowledge work from single interactions to delegated, long-horizon tasks. Chatbot interactions are often short and self-contained. Agents can operate independently for minutes or hours while orchestrating tool calls, interacting with environments, and iterating towards solutions. As a result, agents are quickly becoming the most powerful AI tool for work.
Over the last year, we witnessed this transformation first-hand at OpenAI. For the first few months after Codex was released to the public, ChatGPT remained the default AI tool for work within OpenAI. Through August 2025, the average OpenAI worker spent less than 10% of their tokens on Codex. Now, every department, including non-technical departments such as Legal and Recruiting, uses Codex as their primary AI tool for work. This pattern reflects what we believe will be the future of work given the expanded capabilities and accessibility of agentic tools.
Codex adoption grew in tandem with Codex’s capabilities. As Codex leveraged stronger models and new product features, it became capable of taking on an expanding set of productive tasks. Across Individual users, Organizational users, and OpenAI workers, we document four trends over the past year:
- People use Codex for longer-horizon work. By May 2026, 80.6% of sampled individual users made at least one Codex request estimated to exceed 30 minutes of human work, 70.2% made one estimated to exceed one hour, and 25.6% made at least one Codex request estimated to exceed eight hours.
- Codex became the primary AI tool for every department at OpenAI. Engineering moved first, but Legal, Finance, and Recruiting crossed into Codex being their primary AI tool around April 2026. For the average OpenAI worker, Codex usage now accounts for more than 85% of output tokens. Since Codex users tend to use more tokens than non-users, its share of overall tokens is even higher: Codex accounts for 99.8% of weekly output tokens generated within OpenAI.
- Non-developer adoption grew especially rapidly, outpacing developer adoption. Since August 2025, non-developer users rose 137x for individual users, 189x for organizational users, and 12x within OpenAI.
- Codex enabled OpenAI workers to do tasks outside their job description. While technical usage is still most prevalent among engineers, non-technical users regularly use Codex to take on coding or technical execution, including automation, data transformation, tooling, debugging, and structured analysis.
Agents work longer hours on harder tasks
Nearly a quarter of all Codex requests are for tasks that would take a person more than one hour to complete1. As Codex’s capacity for independent long-context work improved, users shifted from short interactions toward more difficult tasks with longer horizons.
The chart below estimates the share of individual users that crossed four human-time thresholds: tasks that would take a person more than 30 minutes, more than one hour, more than four hours, and more than eight hours2. From December 2025 to May 2026, the share of users who made a request that was estimated to correspond to work that would take a person more than 30 minutes rose to 80.6%. The share making a request that would take a person more than one hour rose to 70.2%. The share requesting work that would take a person more than eight hours grew the fastest from a low base.
The growth in agentic usage can be seen in daily Codex runtime. Among daily active users at OpenAI, the heaviest users ask Codex to run many hours of agent work in a single day. By June 2026, users at the 99th percentile regularly generated more than 60 hours of Codex agent turns per day, distributed across multiple, parallel agents. As Codex became more powerful and parallelizable, users moved from only asking Codex for one answer at a time into increasingly orchestrating multiple agent tasks over the course of a day.
Adoption continues to move from engineers to the rest of OpenAI
Engineers at OpenAI began adopting Codex first, gradually. The average engineer at the company shifted the majority of their usage of OpenAI products to Codex by December 2025. Today, the average engineer generates 99% of their output tokens with Codex rather than ChatGPT. Legal, finance, and recruiting crossed over to majority use of Codex later, around April 2026, but their transitions were much faster. The average lawyer or recruiter at OpenAI now generates more than 85% of their output tokens on Codex.
Over the last six months, Codex usage has deepened and intensified at OpenAI. Among active internal users, change in combined output tokens rose sharply across departments. Research saw the biggest jump: by June 2026, median use was 56 times higher than in November 2025. Customer Support rose 32 times and Engineering rose 27 times, while Legal grew more gradually but still reached 13 times its November level.
These two patterns together illustrate how Codex has transformed how OpenAI uses AI to do productive work. Across the company, users are switching from chatbots to agents as their primary form of AI interaction and are deploying an exponentially growing amount of agentic labor.
Non-developers are the fastest-growing user groups
Across all user groups—OpenAI, organizational, and individual users—Codex use began with developers, the natural target audience for what began as a coding tool. However, as Codex expanded toward more general knowledge work, adoption among non-developers grew even more quickly. As shown in the user growth chart below, weekly non-developer users rose faster than developer users among individual, organizational, and OpenAI populations. By early June 2026, non-developer individual users multiplied 137 times since August 2025. Non-developer organizational users increased 189-fold, and non-developer OpenAI users increased 12-fold, likely because this group already started at a well above average starting point.
The shift does not mean every non-developer is using Codex in the same way as an engineer. Rather, it means that more non-developers are using Codex for some kind of agentic work.
Codex is expanding the horizon of potential productive work
Codex enables non-technical departments to accelerate workflows previously bottlenecked by technical expertise. The heat map below compares inferred occupations within OpenAI to the type of work represented in Codex outputs. Engineering and coding show up as the largest category for data science and research, whereas knowledge work is the largest category for finance and business operations, marketing, operations, and other departments.
That said, agentic tools can expand what an individual worker can do. For instance, over one-fourth of work done with Codex by workers in business functions was engineering or coding. Agents can lower the cost of moving across task boundaries and help workers do adjacent work that used to require more specialized technical support.
What this means for agents’ economic potential
Increased use of agentic tools by non-engineer employees expands the frontier of what these workers can do. That matters for businesses deciding how to redesign workflows, for employees learning which skills become more valuable, and for policymakers and researchers trying to understand how AI changes the labor market.
Our paper shows how frontier users adopt capable agentic tools at the frontier. Our results demonstrate what unfolds when people have broad, low-friction access to capable agentic tools: as the tools improve, people use them for longer, more complex, and more cross-functional work. As time goes on, this is likely to be what the future of work looks like.
Author
Footnotes
- 1Task horizon is estimated using an LLM-as-judge with access to Codex transcripts. 
- 2These thresholds are model-estimated, so they should be treated as directiona…（正文已截断）