Improvements to Teams Pricing
We are increasing our Teams plan usage limits, introducing a Premium seat to support the heaviest agent users, and making it easier for admins to forecast and control spend.
These changes will start for all new customers immediately, and renewing customers on billing cycles starting July 1st, 2026.
Increasing limits by adding a Composer-specific usage pool
Model choice is the most important determinant of costs. Until recently, the only way to get frontier performance was to pay frontier prices. Composer 2.5, our latest model, provides frontier performance at a fraction of the cost.
Every Teams seat will now come with two separate pools of included usage:
- Composer and Auto: A generous pool reserved for first-party Cursor models and Auto.
- Third-Party API: Usage consumed by third-party models.
This improvement to the Standard $40 per month seat will give every user significantly more usage, with no change in cost.
Improving cost predictability with a Premium seat for power users
As we showed in our recent Developer Habits Report, a small number of power users on any team tend to drive the majority of spend and unpredictable on-demand costs.
To lower costs and improve predictability for these users, we are introducing a new Premium seat: 5x the included usage of the Standard seat, at only 3x the cost. Teams can mix seat types freely. We expect the Composer pool on our new Premium seat to cover a full month of heavy agent usage for 99% of users.
Updated Teams seats:
- Standard: Now includes more total usage. $32 per seat per month for annual plans; $40 per seat per month for monthly plans.
- Premium: 5x the usage of Standard. $96 per seat per month for annual plans; $120 per seat per month for monthly plans.
Real-time usage visibility and better spend controls
The Cursor dashboard now shows users how close they are to hitting their limits, split between Auto + Composer and 3rd party API models. When users on your team would benefit from a specific seat type based on their usage behavior, we'll make recommendations to help you get the most value out of your plan.
We've also rebuilt our spend alerting. Admins can configure smart alerts based on dollar thresholds and have them delivered to the right people through Slack or email before a billing surprise happens.
Please let us know if you have any questions! You can email us at hi@cursor.com.