Early stage investments have slowed down in India in 2026. We just put our largest fund yet behind the opposite bet. When South Park Commons opened its first office outside the US in Bengaluru, the reasonable question was, why India, and why now? Consensus had cooled after a decade of exuberance. The language in the ecosystem turned careful. We started with a contrarian outlook. The gap was not in the ambition of founders or in the market, but in how capital shows up when it&#8217;s needed the most: at the messy &#8220;-1.&#8221; Before there&#8217;s a company or even an idea, founders spend months to years figuring out what&#8217;s worth building. This phase is often treated as friction, to get through as fast as possible. SPC has spent 10 years treating it as the most critical point. The proof is there in spades. This week we announced SPC&#8217;s $575M Fund IV . One global pool, with the same degree of conviction, across San Francisco, New York and Bengaluru. That structure is intentional. We do not believe in a separate order of belief and approach to risk in India. We believe in rewarding risk-taking at the earliest stages. World-class builders from India need world-class partners batting for them, in the opening order! In the last 2 years, SPC India has invested in 25 companies, and our community has grown to over 170 members. We are here to stay. Timing is Everything India has an abundance of talent that is deeply technical, seasoned, and optimistic about building hard things. This is the compound interest of three waves. Flipkart, PhonePe, and Paytm proved generational companies could be built here. Swiggy, Zomato, Ather, Meesho, and Myntra proved it could be done at scale. Their alumni have since founded more than 200 companies. It&#8217;s a generation that understands how greatness is assembled, and they&#8217;re hungry for more shots on goal. Alongside them is a younger cohort with an inversion at the center of how they think. For their parents, risk was the word that ended a conversation. For them, it is the spark. And lastly, we have a homecoming wave of talent returning to India, often frustrated with visa situations or because of family &amp; personal reasons. They bring a unique perspective, lived experience, and unbridled ambition to the ecosystem. For the first time in India, ambition does not need permission. It multiplies in a community like ours, because ambition is social. The pursuit of excellence is a privilege. You manifest it. Our zone of excellence is where unreasonable ambition is the ordinary register. Ambition is Moving to the Hard Problems Ambition is no longer concentrated in bits, but is traveling toward atoms: robotics, energy, biotech, defense, space, semiconductors. We are putting indigenous satellites and rockets into orbit, and landing on the dark side of the moon. Arctus Aerospace is building autonomous aircraft to serve as an eye in the sky over critical infrastructure, and went from a blank sheet of paper to a flight-worthy aircraft in 150 days. Qosmic is building the optical communications backbone of the space economy. Maya Research is building a voice interface for the majority of the world. Cent is building an AI-first preventive healthcare system, starting with early detection. Building hard things demands technical depth, patience, and an easy familiarity with constraint, all of which this country has always held in surplus. Graduates and researchers in physics, math, chemistry, and materials science are abundant here. The IITs and IISCs turn out talent who hold their own anywhere. For years, we were missing patient, steady capital that understands decade-long timelines. A geopolitical moment in which understanding the needs of the rest of the world is an advantage. Those things have arrived at once. What&#8217;s Next? Indian leaders already run some of the world&#8217;s hottest companies. There&#8217;s Kunal Shah leading WhatsApp after CRED, and the Emergent team building a global breakout after Dunzo. Indians returning from abroad have spent years alongside the best in the world, and are now choosing to build their next thing from here. It is a different kind of calling to build where you are from. We have over a billion people with a median age of ~29, and the 2nd largest STEM graduate pipeline on earth. The arithmetic starts to look inevitable. You simply do not bet against a billion smart people who are used to figuring hard things out. This is not a prediction. No one can claim clairvoyant clarity. In 2015 we could not have predicted a year like 2026, when the limits of possibility have bent. The map of where great technology is built converges around: A deep bench of talented people willing to take delusional risks Enough of them choosing to build what only they can Enough collective ambition and enablement to reach escape velocity That map is wider than most assume. A critical part of it begins here in India. A paradigm shift is underway. Our job is to create the catalytic conditions for it. Our time, capital, and community is behind that belief.