I Am Retiring from Tech to Live Offline I've seen a lot of posts on forums from people threatening to quit their careers over AI. This is not one of those: Chad Whitacre is taking concrete steps, starting with this typewritten, scanned letter I'm retiring from tech. Well, "retiring" is euphemistic. I'm stepping away from tech, and that includes Open Source. [...] AI was the last straw. Have you heard of that island off India where the indigenous population kills any outsiders fool-hardy enough to land? They are doing the rest of us a favor by preserving a way of life we may need again someday, or at the very least should not want to see completely extinguished. A reminder. Never forget your roots. Here in Pennsylvania we have the Amish performing a similar function. Significantly less hostile, though still set apart, they bear witness to what was normal for all of us a couple short centuries ago: horse and buggy, wood stoves and lanterns. My intent is to be AI Amish, which means Internet Amish. Not 1780, but 1980. Neo-Amish. I'm fine driving a car and flipping a lightswitch, by which I mean that they don't make me into something I hate, which AI and [struck through: social media] [handwritten above: doomscrolling] do. I'll admit that at first I wasn't entirely sure if this was serious. Then I found this earlier post by Chad from Feb 19 2026, Spitting Out the Agentic Kool-Aid : I figured I’d better taste the Kool-Aid in order to form an opinion, so I dove into Claude Code with Opus 4.5 on a side project. I spent three 12+ hour days with it. I was intoxicated. My family was weirded out. [...] It weirded me out too, when I unplugged for a long weekend. Something felt off. It was like I had another “person” in my head, sharing my inner monologue—but the “person” was a computer system owned by a budding megacorp. [...] I am now also committing myself to disembarking from the titantic of technological accelerationism. All efforts to address the problems of invasive technology are worthwhile, even those that are only partially effective. For my part, I have started trying to return more fully to a pre-screen, analog life. It's accompanied by a video version of the essay which I found touching and sincere. Chad has been trying to solve the open source sustainability problem for years - I talked with him about this at PyCon 2025 in Cleveland. That's a very tough nut to crack, and the disruption caused by AI looks to be making it even harder. I'm glad that the Open Source Endowment will continue without him. I'm very much going to miss his online voice. Via Hacker News Tags: open-source , ai , generative-ai , llms , chad-whitacre , ai-ethics , deep-blue