Research acceleration: The view inside OpenAI
For AGI to benefit all of humanity, we believe it must be democratically governed. This can only happen through an informed public debate about the capabilities, risks and safeguards of highly capable AI systems. People everywhere need to understand the likely future trajectory of frontier AI, so they can have a meaningful voice in how it develops.
Transparency about specific risks, incidents and safeguards is necessary, but not sufficient. We believe the public also needs to understand how the most capable systems are developing, and how they are driving research progress, inside of frontier labs.
We aim to safely build an automated AI researcher that can work under human supervision to further progress on deep learning and alignment, enabling iterative improvements. According to our measurements, we have now reached the goal, announced(opens in a new window) last fall, of having an automated research intern by September of this year. By “research intern,” we mean a system that can carry out well-defined research tasks under human direction, including tasks that would take a skilled researcher a few days. We are making strong progress toward creating an automated AI researcher by March of 2028.
Over the course of this year, OpenAI researchers’ daily work has changed substantially. Researchers are using coding agents throughout the day (often in concurrent sessions) and total usage is rapidly increasing, outpacing growth among other OpenAI teams. Researchers are contributing code faster and running more experiments. The ways researchers use agents are changing, too: agents are handling increasingly complex tasks, and succeeding at them more often. AI research is a complex process with many potential bottlenecks, so the overall pace of progress likely won’t keep pace with these specific metrics. But on the whole, these findings are consistent with the broader impression many of us have internally that agentic tools are meaningfully accelerating research progress. People still set our research priorities, judge which ideas and results to pursue, and decide whether to scale, pause, or deploy systems.
If it is done responsibly, we believe automated AI research will yield models that directly enhance human welfare and advance OpenAI’s mission. It can bring down the cost of advanced intelligence so that people worldwide can benefit. We are pursuing this work in part because automated research could help us solve alignment and build defenses against increasingly capable AI. An automated AI researcher can also be an automated safety or alignment researcher. More capable, aligned systems could help secure critical infrastructure, defend against dangerous AI agents, and develop new protective measures.
These are reasons to develop useful automated research capabilities, but they do not mean that rapid RSI is necessarily an outcome we should pursue. Whether and how to proceed must depend on our ability to preserve human control and on informed democratic choices about the benefits and risks.
We do not yet know how to safely get all the way to aligned, full RSI. We are working to scale alignment and safety measures alongside capabilities. But we cannot assume that progress in alignment and safety will keep pace, and more capable systems can become harder to monitor. Careful alignment and safety work is at the center of this effort, and it starts with measuring and mitigating the safety problems we see today in agentic coding systems. Whenever we find that proceeding would pose an unacceptable safety risk, we will respond appropriately including by slowing or stopping our development or deployment of systems we find ourselves unable to sufficiently safeguard.
After the recent Hugging Face incident, we put this commitment into action, pausing reinforcement learning (RL) training on our latest models intended for deployment while we further hardened and red-teamed our research environments and expanded coverage of our monitoring systems. This did not halt all research: some workloads resumed under stronger controls, while others remained paused. We have raised our safety and alignment standards and moved safety work deeper into the model lifecycle, requiring stronger evidence of aligned behavior throughout all of training.
Today we are providing a detailed snapshot of how agentic systems have contributed to our progress toward RSI in recent months. Agentic systems are new and rapidly changing, and our measurement efforts are still preliminary. By sharing these early results and the methods behind them, we aim to inform the public, encourage a norm of public disclosure, and help the field move toward shared standards of measurement.
Ultimately, as we wrote in our frontier policy blueprint, we believe that we and other companies should be required to publicly track our progress toward RSI. Even without such a requirement, we plan to continue being transparent about our RSI progress. We will evolve our transparency approach as our measurement techniques and understanding improve, while balancing the need to protect security and proprietary information.
At the start of this year, the median researcher ranked by agent usage at OpenAI was using coding agents only in modest amounts. By mid-August, the median researcher was integrating agents daily into their work, using more than $600 per day of inference at API prices. The 90th percentile user in our research organization now uses more than $7,000 of tokens per day.
Before June 2026, total agent runtime across the research organization was still below that of total human labor. That has since changed. In terms of a standard 8 hour workday, as of mid-August, in total, the research organization uses 3.1 agent-workdays of effort for every workday of human labor.
Another way of looking at this is to understand how many researchers use highly concurrent workflows (e.g., running 4 or more agents simultaneously). As shown below, this number is increasing. These figures include the daily peaks of both agents started directly by the user and subagents created downstream from those the user launched directly.
Much of AI research can be seen as a labor-intensive process with the goal of integrating a new improvement to model intelligence or performance into one of our core models. The process depends on many steps, and capabilities advance when all the steps go right together: Researchers have to design new improvements, write evaluations to judge model performance, write infrastructure to test these improvements at scale, catch bugs as well as unsafe or misaligned behavior during training, and integrate winning ideas into a core training run. A failure at any part of the research process can constrain the entire loop.
Writing code and running experiments are two major activities that researchers do as part of their work, and we see evidence that these processes are accelerating.
These data points are relatively easy to measure, but can be hard to interpret. As automation progresses, the tasks which are least automatable will take on a larger share of researcher effort and will become the important bottlenecks to future progress. Compute is another gating factor for progress, and may become more important over time as other bottlenecks diminish.
Through 2026, the number of experiments per active experimenter has increased, with August 2026 being an all-time high since tracking began in Jan 2025. This is correlated with increased Codex adoption, though we note that our available compute has also grown significantly since 2025.
Both qualitative impressions and internal data indicate that the mix of tasks researchers delegate to coding agents is changing, with delegation of higher level and longer-horizon tasks becoming more common over time.
To get a clearer picture of this trend, we analyzed recent usage in the research organization using a recently published taxonomy(opens in a new wi…（正文已截断）