ChatGPT Ads expands across Europe
Six months after we began testing ads in the U.S., we’re bringing ChatGPT Ads to 31 European markets.
Next week, ChatGPT Ads will expand to 31 European countries, including Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, and Austria.
Advertisers will initially be able to access ChatGPT Ads through the OpenAI Ads Solutions team, agency partners, and technology partners. Self-service access through Ads Manager will follow later this summer.
Ads help advance our mission to democratize access to the best AI by supporting free and low-cost access to ChatGPT. As in our existing markets, ads will be shown only to users on the Free and Go plans. Plus, Pro, and Enterprise subscriptions will remain ad-free.
This expansion gives marketers across Europe a new way to reach people while they are actively exploring, comparing, and making decisions.
People come to ChatGPT with goals. They might be planning a trip, choosing software for their business, furnishing a home, learning to understand a new concept or how to start a new hobby. Instead of entering a few keywords, people can explain what they want to accomplish, what matters to them, and the constraints they face.
ChatGPT Ads give marketers an opportunity to reach people across the customer journey as they explore and evaluate their options—and to be useful in the moments that spur discovery, shape decisions, and lead to purchase.
Protecting the trust people place in ChatGPT is foundational to our approach to advertising.
Guided by OpenAI’s ads principles, we keep conversations private from advertisers and never sell customer data. Ads in ChatGPT are always clearly labeled and separate from ChatGPT’s answers, and advertising does not influence the answers ChatGPT provides. People also have control over ad personalization, with ad-free paid plans available for those who prefer not to see ads.
Our goal is straightforward: ads should be useful to people as they pursue their goals and make decisions—and effective for the businesses that advertise with us.
In February, we began testing ads in ChatGPT with a pilot in the United States. Over the past six months, we have expanded to eight additional markets. The addition of 31 European markets marks our largest expansion to date.
At the same time, we have continued building the ChatGPT Ads platform from the ground up:
- We expanded beyond CPM and CPC bidding to support conversion optimization, helping advertisers optimize toward their business goals.
- We introduced geo-targeting and custom audiences to help advertisers reach more relevant customers.
- We expanded measurement beyond clicks through the OpenAI Pixel, Conversions API, and third-party measurement integrations, giving advertisers a more complete view of how ChatGPT Ads contribute to business outcomes.
Tens of thousands of marketers have now advertised on ChatGPT, and we continue to improve the platform based on what we learn from people and businesses.
We’ve made significant progress in six months, but we are still early in building the full potential of ChatGPT Ads. As we expand into new markets, and develop new formats, optimization tools, and measurement solutions, we’ll remain focused on broadening access to powerful AI, protecting the trust people place in ChatGPT, and helping businesses achieve their goals.
Businesses interested in getting started can sign up at ads.openai.com(opens in a new window).