Gemini Omni 1.1 Flash lets you build with more control
Today, we’re introducing Gemini Omni 1.1 Flash, a new suite of creative controls and generative video capabilities to support developers. Gemini Omni brought real-world reasoning to generative creation, and today’s updates make Omni 1.1 production-ready for professional use via the Gemini API in Google AI Studio.
Whether you’re building generative video workflows, creative tools, or media editing software, these updates make generative video more controllable, faster to iterate on, and polished for real-world deployment. Here’s a look at what’s new:
Extend scenes for longer storytelling
Scene extension allows you to take an existing video and continue generating footage seamlessly from where it left off.
With Omni 1.1, the model can now analyze up to 10 seconds of prior context — a leap from previous models that only referenced the final second. The result is improved visual consistency and narrative adherence, letting you build longer stories or branch into new creative directions. You can extend videos in 10-second increments up to a total cumulative length of 40 seconds.
Here’s how you can extend your scene with the Gemini API:
from google import genai
client = genai.Client()
interaction = client.interactions.create(
    model="gemini-omni-1.1-flash",
    previous_interaction_id=previous_video_interaction.id,
    input=[
        {"type": "text", "text": "Continue the scene."}
    ],
    response_format={
        "resolution": "360p",
    },
)
Specify first and last frames
Achieve smooth transitions and camera movements by specifying the starting and ending frames of a shot. Omni 1.1 generates continuous video between two keyframes, making it ideal for complex camera orbits, zoom transitions, or seamless looping clips.
Prompt 1: A close-up low-angle shot of a stylish drummer in a beige suit playing a red drum kit in a grand hall transitions as the camera whip-pans to the side, revealing an older saxophonist playing alongside a ballet dancer spinning in a white outfit under soft purple stage lights. One continuous shot, no jump cuts.
Prompt 2: The camera zooms into the TV screen, where we see the same woman and the same scene from the beginning. Seamless video. One continuous shot, no jump cuts.
Draft videos more efficiently in 360p
Generate lightweight previews in 360p resolution up to 60% faster* and at a third of the cost compared to Omni 1.1’s standard 720p resolution. This is helpful for rapid prototyping, storyboard iteration, and quick rendering in developer platforms.
*Up to 60% faster generation based on system throughput of 360p vs. 720p resolution
Prompt: A microscopic view of iridescent marine diatoms, displaying intricate, glass-like silica shells with breathtaking natural symmetry. The colors range from deep volcanic amber and warm copper to vibrant turquoise and violet, mimicking the rich palette of earth and ocean. Tiny, delicate structures glow softly against a clean dark field background. High-fidelity scientific imaging, sharp details, organic textures, micro-photography. Maintain the microscope lens effect throughout the entire video.
Upscale up to 4K resolution
Generate polished, high-resolution 1080p or 4K outputs that are ready for professional production with Omni 1.1.
Prompt 1: Fish swimming, tracking shot
Prompt 2: A little chipmunk darting out of the woods from the left side of the screen and sniffing the air inquisitively before darting out of frame on the right side
Prompt 3: Cinematic macro close-up of vibrant golden-orange Japanese maple leaves on a delicate branch, gently rustling and swaying in a soft, rhythmic autumn breeze. Sunlight filters through the translucent foliage, creating a warm, glowing effect. Shallow depth of field, dreamy bokeh background, hyper-detailed textures, photorealistic, 4k.
Add video references in your multimodal input
Reference up to three seconds of video when crafting your scene, allowing you to maintain visual context and character consistency based on video references.
Prompt: Use the three uploaded videos of dancers and replace them with the provided characters. Have them perform their individual dances from the reference videos, all together in the large, open space from the provided image.
The dog character dog.png should do the classical dance from dance3.mp4. The octopus octo.png should do the hip hop dance from dance1.mp4, and the bear bear.png should do the breakdance from dance2.mp4. The final result should be one continuous shot with no scene cuts.
Inspiring concepts for what you can build
Here are a few ideas showing how developers can put these new capabilities into action across custom tools and creative workflows.
See how customers are putting Omni Flash in production
Our customers are already driving real-world production with Gemini Omni Flash via the Agent Platform API. Explore the videos they've created and hear about how they are using the model below.
Build with Gemini Omni 1.1 Flash Today
Pricing table for Gemini Omni 1.1 Flash.
Omni 1.1 is rolling out across the Google developer ecosystem:
- Start building in Google AI Studio: Try out Omni 1.1 directly in Google AI Studio.
- Build on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform: Enterprises can build with Omni 1.1 directly via Agent Platform API.
- Explore the developer documentation: Check out the official documentation, the cookbook and prompting guides to learn how to integrate scene extensions, video references, and upscaling into your applications.
Omni 1.1 is also available to all Google AI Plus, Pro and Ultra subscribers globally in Google Flow, starting today. Scene extension is available to all Google AI Plus, Pro and Ultra subscribers globally in the Gemini app.