Friday's big release was Qwen 3.8 27B , an Apache 2 licensed 27B parameter vision-capable LLM from Alibaba's Qwen research lab. I've been looking forward to this one: 27B is an excellent size for running a model on a reasonably specced laptop, and its predecessor Qwen 3.6 27B was impressive. Qwen's self-reported benchmarks for this model are eye-opening. They show a boost from both Qwen 3.6 27B and the closed-weight Qwen 3.7-Plus, which was one of Qwen's strongest models of any size as recently as May this year . It will be interesting to hear what independent benchmarks have to say about the model. I've been running the model on two different machines: my 128GB M5 Max MacBook Pro, and an NVIDIA DGX Spark . On both machines I'm running LM Studio and their 17GB Q4_K_M quantized build . I also tried using llama-server directly on the Spark. The default of extra high results in spectacular over-thinking Qwen's documentation describes the model as defaulting to xhigh for the reasoning effort, and the LM Studio GGUF I've been trying preserves that default: Qwen3.8 comes with official support for reasoning_effort , which can be used to adjust reasoning depth and control cost: xhigh (default): for complex tasks demanding thorough analysis medium : balancing accuracy and speed low : efficient reasoning optimizing for speed and cost This is a hilarious default. It's absolutely not a good way to run the model, especially on consumer hardware. I've been finding the results extremely entertaining. I quickly ran into problems with LM Studio's default context limit of 8,192 tokens - Qwen was using them all up thinking about even the most mundane of problems. I loaded the model with the full 262,144 maximum context length and that problem went away. Here's the pelican riding a bicycle SVG I got from my first attempt with that increased context length. It took 21 minutes to generate, using 22,276 reasoning tokens to produce 3,223 tokens of output. You can read the reasoning trace here . This is by far the best pelican SVG I've been able to generate with a model that runs on a local machine - and this Qwen is pretty small, just a 17GB file on disk. There's a lot to like about this: The bicycle frame is the right shape It has legs on each side of the bike - that's very rare Good, clear pelican pouch The wings extend to touch the handlebars! The motion lines are behind, not in front It has a tasteful background - nice sun, clouds, hill, flowers and grass. Was that worth waiting 21 minutes for? Absolutely not. Here's that same prompt run with reasoning turned off - transcript here . This one produced 3,715 tokens and took 137s - just over two minutes. And just for completeness, I used OpenRouter to run the same prompt through the much larger Qwen 3.8 2.4T-A95B (released last week ) and got this snazzy animated SVG : Your browser does not support HTML5 video. I said Qwen at xhigh has a tendency to over-think things, but how bad really is it? I tried a much simpler prompt, again with that default extra high setting: draw an svg of a circle Qwen's reasoning trace started like this: The user is asking for an SVG drawing of a circle. Simple request — but I want it to be a carefully crafted piece. Let me make something that goes beyond just &lt;circle&gt; : a single self-contained SVG file with character — maybe a geometric "circle study," with subtle animation, layered rings, and a distinctive palette. Keep the scope right: they asked for an SVG of a circle. So the core is a circle. But I can add craft: concentric guide circles (like a compass/geometry drawing), tick marks, a soft gradient fill on the main circle, restrained ambient motion (a slowly rotating dashed ring, pulsing glow). Respect prefers-reduced-motion? That's more for CSS; SVG SMIL or CSS inside SVG will do. Palette options: deep teal ink on warm paper? Or bold vermilion circle on off-white with navy construction lines — Bauhaus/compass-drawing vibe. Let me go with a "geometric study" look: cool slate background, or bright paper white? Paper white is fine if it's not the cream-and-terracotta combo. [...] Several minutes later it produced this absolutely beautiful animated circle, which was entirely not what I had asked for! Your browser does not support HTML5 video. My strong recommendation: ignore that default. Run Qwen 3.8 27B on low or even no reasoning levels at first. It's a great model, but wow that default setting is a bad place to start. It's very good at bounding boxes A fun way to test a vision model is to see how well it can return bounding boxes around items in a photograph. I've seen previous Qwen models deal well with this, so I decided to put it to the test drawing bounding boxes around some pelicans. I've seen asking for 0-1000 scale produce good results in the past. I tried this: llm -a https://static.inaturalist.org/photos/714731804/large.jpg \ -m lmstudio/qwen/qwen3.8-27b \ ' Return JSON bounding boxes for the pelicans in this photo, 0-1000 scale for each dimension ' Here's the reasoning trace , which produced this: [ { "bbox_2d" : [ 195 , 290 , 370 , 780 ], "label" : " pelicans " }, { "bbox_2d" : [ 445 , 320 , 675 , 850 ], "label" : " pelicans " } ] This is such a good match . Here are those boxes rendered on top of the photo: Building a tool to label bounding boxes That visualization of the bounding boxes was taken using a new custom tool that I had Qwen 3.8 27B build for me, running offline on my laptop. I forgot to dial down the thinking effort so it was massively over-engineered , but it did manage to produce this full interface from this single prompt : [ {"bbox_2d": [195, 290, 370, 780], "label": "pelicans"}, {"bbox_2d": [445, 320, 675, 850], "label": "pelicans"} ] Build an HTML page which has an input box for accepting the URL to an image and a textarea for accepting the above style of JSON. It appends the image to the page, measures its width and height, then treats the coords in the bbox_2d as scaled from 0-1000 and scales them against the actual width and height, then it renders labelled boxes over the image. This screenshot shows one of the features I did not ask for - a demo scene, for if you don't have a photograph to test the tool with: Here's the relevant segment of the thinking trace, where it decided to draw its own pelicans purely because I had used the label "pelicans" in the example JSON I gave it in the prompt: Also a "load sample" that uses a known image? Can't depend on external images, but… the image URL input is user-provided; I could add a "try with sample" button [...] Hmm, I can draw a simple scene on canvas, export it as a data URL, and load it into the image — that's self-contained and demo-able! [...] But the user's coords are for an actual pelican image; a generated placeholder can still demo the scaling. Generate a 1000x1000 placeholder: gradient water + two blob-like "pelican" silhouettes placed at the given bboxes (using the same scale — cute: silhouettes at the exact 0-1000 positions, showing the boxes align). This makes for a fun, self-contained demo. Keep it simple: sky gradient, sun, water, two pelican-ish shapes (ellipse body, circle head, beak). Place at bbox centers. (I'm slightly nervous that models around the world might have a bias towards drawing pelicans at any chance they can get, brought on by nearly two years of exposure to my own stupid benchmark.) Is all that over-thinking necessary? Maybe it is, at least a bit. I tried with reasoning turned off and got this version , ( transcript here ), which nearly works but shows the boxes in the wrong place: So without reasoning it didn't quite one-shot a working tool. I'm sure it could get there with some follow-up prompts, but this is a good example of how reasoning can make a difference. Yes, it can drive coding agents One of the biggest questions around local models is whether or not they have enough horsepower to successfully run a coding agent loop. Coding agents require long context, strong c…（正文已截断）