Samsung Electronics brings ChatGPT and Codex to employees
The deployment is one of our largest to date.
- ChatGPT Enterprise and Codex available to all Samsung Electronics employees in Korea and all Device eXperience (DX) employees worldwide
- Samsung’s global deployment is one of OpenAI’s largest enterprise launches ever
- Samsung Electronics to use ChatGPT and Codex across its operations, from R&D and manufacturing to marketing, corporate functions, and other areas of its business
Samsung Electronics is deploying ChatGPT Enterprise and Codex to its employees around the world as it accelerates AI adoption across the company. Under the agreement, ChatGPT and Codex will be made available to all Samsung Electronics employees in Korea, and all employees worldwide in its Device eXperience (DX) division. This represents one of OpenAI’s largest enterprise deployments to date.
Samsung Electronics plans to use ChatGPT and Codex for technical and non-technical work, across a broad range of functions, including software development, marketing, product development, and manufacturing, to enhance employee productivity and problem-solving capabilities. Codex started as a tool for software development, but it’s increasingly useful for more kinds of work.
With ChatGPT, Samsung Electronics employees perform a wide range of knowledge-based tasks more efficiently, including searching for and analyzing information, drafting documents, developing ideas, and interpreting data. ChatGPT Enterprise provides enterprise-grade capabilities that enable organizations to use AI securely and effectively, including data protection, user and access management, and security controls. These capabilities allow Samsung Electronics employees to use advanced AI within the company’s security policies and governance framework.
Codex can enhance not only developer productivity through tasks such as writing, reviewing, and debugging code, but also the productivity of non-technical teams in their day-to-day work. For example, employees can use Codex to turn ideas into working software, internal tools, websites, and automated workflows.
More than 5 million people now use Codex every week for technical and non-technical workflows and roles. Codex weekly active users in Korea have grown nearly 800% since February 1, 2026.
“This historic deployment for OpenAI is particularly significant because Samsung Electronics, a global leader in technology and manufacturing, is embracing AI not as a tool limited to certain teams or functions, but as a core platform for improving how employees around the world work and innovate,” said Harrison Kim, General Manager of OpenAI Korea.
“OpenAI will work closely with Samsung Electronics to help its employees level up with ChatGPT and Codex to move from ideas to execution faster, solve complex problems, and create new products and services.”
OpenAI and Samsung Electronics previously began collaborating in the field of global AI infrastructure. Samsung Electronics is working with OpenAI to supply advanced memory semiconductors required for next-generation AI infrastructure. With Samsung Electronics’ adoption of ChatGPT Enterprise, the relationship between the two companies is expanding beyond AI infrastructure to encompass workforce transformation and company-wide AI adoption.
Also in Korea, Seoul National University recently began providing ChatGPT Edu to all 47,000 members of its community, including students, faculty, and staff, as part of its transition toward becoming an AI-native campus. OpenAI has also worked with Kakao to enable people to ask ChatGPT questions and receive responses directly within KakaoTalk group chats, bringing ChatGPT into Korea’s widely used everyday messaging platform.
Companies across a wide range of industries in Korea, including LG Electronics, LG Uplus, LG CNS, GS E&C, Samsung SDS, TVING, Krafton, Toss, MUSINSA, Korea Zinc, Nexen Tire, and HanaTour are also using ChatGPT Enterprise, OpenAI APIs, and Codex.