A lot has happened in the last few weeks. I am sure that OpenAI&#8217;s GPT-6 Astra is top of mind for everyone right now. In particular, thoughts on its performance, the looped transformer/recurrent depth aspects, and rumors that Astra is &#8220;hiding&#8221; its reasoning trace (i.e., chain of thought). So, in this article, I want to start with some brief impressions of Astra and some thoughts on where all this is headed. Then, I will discuss, in detail, what &#8220;looped transformers&#8221; are, and how (or rather, if) this relates to hiding chains of thought. Lastly, after covering the basics of the looped transformer, I wanted to highlight some new insights from recent research papers on the topic. 1. GPT-6 Astra impressions First things first. Before getting into the architecture rumors and related research literature, let me briefly summarize some GPT-6 Astra observations and tidbits. Last week, OpenAI&#8217;s new GPT-6 Astra was released with a big fanfare. I used it over the past couple of days, and it&#8217;s an exceptionally good model, likely the best I&#8217;ve used as of this writing. But what, exactly, has it improved, and how? 1.1 Astra benchmarks Astra is the best model I&#8217;ve used so far, and it&#8217;s disproportionately good at 3D rendering and animation tasks (relative to other models). With that, I mean that while it leapfrogs its GPT-5.6 predecessor in practically all categories (writing, math, coding, and more), it especially does so when it comes to graphical demos. We can see this also reflected in the benchmarks. For instance, GPT-6 Astra is really good at math and coding, as shown below. Figure 1: Selection of three popular coding benchmarks and one challenging math benchmark. More benchmarks are shared on the Astra release blog: https://openai.com/index/gpt-6-astra/ One of the highlights (not shown in the figure) is that Astra also achieves 99.9% on the ARC-AGI-3 benchmark (GPT-5.6 Sol only 7.8%), which measures a mix of solving logic puzzles and generalization. However, the math, coding, and computer use benchmarks are more interesting because they are closer to real-world use. Coming back to the Artificial Analysis Coding Agent Index v1.4 (lower right in the previous figure), which blends several agentic coding tasks, GPT-6 Astra is clearly at the frontier, but it doesn&#8217;t pull ahead by leaps and bounds. This can also be seen in the general Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index shown below, which blends different types of tasks, not just coding tasks. Figure 2: Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index via https://artificialanalysis.ai/#intelligence Now, the big advantage of Artificial Analysis benchmarks is that they are independent and thus may be a bit more trustworthy than self-evaluated benchmarks by model developers. The harness setup depends on the benchmark . For example, GDPval-AA and AA-Briefcase use their open-source, minimal Stirrup harness across the different LLMs they compare. In the Intelligence Index v4.2 shown above, Terminal-Bench v2.1 uses Terminus 2, and &#964;&#179;-Banking uses the &#964;-Bench harness. The separate Coding Agent Index also compares different coding-agent harnesses. For evaluations that use a shared harness, this makes it more of an apples-to-apples comparison. At the same time, during model training, models are typically developed with one primary harness in mind (and fine-tuned less on other harnesses). Plus, the primary harness is often developed to suit and amplify a model&#8217;s strengths. So, some of the agentic evaluations might underestimate how well Astra performs in its primary harness. How much this affects its Intelligence Index score would need to be tested by comparing Astra across harnesses on the same tasks. As a side note, as a colleague recently suggested to me (as also recommended by the Claude Code lead), it&#8217;s maybe not a bad idea to delete (/archive) some of your existing AGENTS.md contents and SKILL.md files, as newer LLMs have become more efficient at understanding the prompt and solving the problem at hand. The extra hand-holding could unnecessarily constrain newer models and lead to worse solutions. Of course, I am not suggesting never using SKILL.md files again, but for some workflows, because they can improve efficiency upon reuse, since the model doesn&#8217;t have to rediscover them. But what I am suggesting is that some workflows don&#8217;t need describing, and &#8220;old&#8221; descriptions may no longer be ideal, and the LLM may be able to come up with better solutions. So, it&#8217;s perhaps time to update or regenerate said instruction files. 1.2 Computer use capabilities GPT-6 Astra seems to be exceptionally strong in image and rendering tasks. When these tasks involve interacting with graphical user interfaces, they also demonstrate computer-use capabilities, meaning the model operates software on your local computer through the Codex/ChatGPT app. Computer use is where the model really shines compared to others, and anything graphic-related also makes for interesting and intuitive demos on social media platforms. There are tons of examples of impressive demos out there, from modeling rendering New York City in blender to virtual open house tours . To pick one example, below is a comparison where I had GPT-6 Astra Medium and High redraw a picture of me in a browser version of MS Paint using the mouse on my computer (not Extra High and Max, because I didn&#8217;t want to waste all my tokens :)). This highlights not only the model&#8217;s artistic capabilities but, more importantly, its ability to use tools on one&#8217;s computer (in this case, Paint; you can see the model using the interface via the mouse cursor). This is not the first model that, inside a harness, is capable of general computer use. For example, I successfully used GPT models for some UI tasks (e.g., expense-related tasks in Excel) and so on since earlier this year. However, computer use is a relatively new capability, enabled by the harness, and usually feels not quite as mature yet. This makes sense. LLMs are text models, so naturally the lower-hanging fruit is writing and coding and using APIs and CLIs. At the same time, there are many tools and software that don&#8217;t expose CLIs (yet), and instead of waiting until someone designs that interface, why not improve models to use graphical user interfaces (and, as mentioned before, this makes for pretty and impressive demos, anyway)? This is somewhat analogous to the emerging humanoid robot developments. Sure, humanoid robots are not the most efficient robots, for example, at the assembly line, where special-purpose machines exist. But they are versatile. So, I expect the upcoming months (or years) also to be an era of computer use refinement on both the LLM and the agent harness layer. I.e., in addition to the current capabilities, and expanding their math and coding capabilities, models will be trained with an increasing amount of computer use in mind. And this will also make LLMs more accessible for everyday computer tasks outside the tech world (&#8221;Hey ChatGPT, please do my tax return&#8221; :)) 1.3 Computer use training The computer usage trend is also consistent with the recent reporting that OpenAI purchased tens of thousands of Mac Minis and Mac Studios for Reinforcement Learning. So, here the Macs are not used to literally train the models (it&#8217;s better to use GPUs for that) but rather to expose macOS during the model training for the model to learn to use said operating system and the tools therein. So, how does computer-use training on said Macs work? In short, the Macs (or their macOS operating system, to be precise) serve as an environment that the model can interact with during training. The basic workflow looks like this: Prompt the model by giving it a task, such as &#8220;open an app xyz and do abc&#8221;. Provide it with screenshots of the macOS interface (this is usually done by the…（正文已截断）